the biggest mistake you could make is to
allow people to convince you that power
is a dirty word if you want to become a
strong and capable person worthy of
respect you should pursue it
aggressively but before you do you need
to develop an understanding of what true
power actually is is it the ability to
get laid and get rich or is it something
far more profound find out right now as
my guest Ty Lopez and I map out the true
nature of power wealth and
seduction
as somebody who has seen the good and
the bad of money and power are up close
what is it exactly that you think people
get wrong and why does it matter so much
to learn and get it right let's take
them one at a time
wealth yeah I've been poor and I've been
rich and I've been in
between wealth is better probably but
More Money More Problems too I always
tell people think about life as like a
curve and you call the kind the
efficient Frontier when I had no money I
was sleeping on a couch in a mobile home
I remember seeing $47 in my account and
going and had very little
happiness then I built my first funnel
and I was one of the first people to use
Google AdWords it was 2 months old and I
went within 9 months I was making
basically 8,000 a month on autop pilot W
my happiness went really high then I
remember really when you really start to
make money make a million bucks a week
or whatever it is I lived in Beverly
Hills the first month I was there it was
a big house 17,000 sare ft so you needed
a a fleet of maids and I used an agency
a maid came worked one day month later
get a lawsuit she said she slipped on a
banana peel wanted money wealth that's
the banana peel effect of wealth in the
US all of a sudden you become a Target
so what happened on that curve my
happiness went up all of a sudden I
started you you can make too much money
then all of a sudden your happiness
plateaus then you're like Mark
Zuckerberg who last year spent 32
million on private security Jesus that
means you have credible threats against
your children kidnapping you're spending
2 and a half million a month on security
his happiness has now gone over the
cliff and he's you can actually be so
wealthy you're back to where you were
when you were poor Rockefeller there's a
book called Titan he's the richest man
in modern times 600 billion net worth in
the book you can read in about the 1890s
he reached the Pinnacle of his success
but he was attacked by the US government
there was a news reporter this woman
that was the thorn in his flesh always
saying he was a scam and blah blah blah
and he lost all his hair in his 50s from
stress all of his hairs eyebrows
eyelashes hair and he he had a Moment of
clarity where he said all of the money I
have made has not compensated me for the
stress I've gone through meaning it's
too much
so that's my answer on wealth find the
point which for most people is going to
be you know six figures of profit maybe
seven figures when you start going to
make eight figures the banana P will
affect your somebody your best friend's
going to try to steal your money the tax
guys come and show up and go well that
did you was that a real business expense
so try to find the optimal point on the
efficient Frontier now you asked about
power my main Mentor in the last 10
years has been Dr David bus he's maybe
the most respected living evolutionary
psychologist and I have a fe I like to
always have one male mentor and one
female and Dr Helen Fischer who's also
one of the preeminent scientists I came
to them one day and I said you know
there's four M's of motivation for
everybody I said what do you think of my
theory Dr bus he said I think it's a
decent theory he always has his own
improvements but the first m is material
things the second m is mating the third
m is movement SL Freedom the fourth m is
Mastery SL status what we get wrong
about ourselves and others when it comes
to power or
wealth is not understanding that almost
every wealthy person that I quiz into
their unconscious mind x-ray into the
mind they're not really driven by
material things there's a lot of people
who seek money because they like the
fourth M Mastery status or power so when
it comes to men men are much more driven
by power I'm already seeing the results
first time I launched this quiz 6,000
people took it the first day in about
190 countries so I'm getting good data
and I'm finding a pattern I ask at the
end is your sex male or female I don't
get into genders sex okay I notice a
consistent Trend men care about Mastery
status power women do occasionally but
but rarely um and that makes sense our
ancestors the men you know n maybe the
second smartest person I've ever read
you know n said the will to power this
is the force that drives Earth Donald
Trump Joe Biden they are there because
they had the will to power they were
like I want Power um the lobbyists the
pharmaceutical companies we think they
just want wealth but there's men sitting
there that want power more than
everything very few men if you give them
a choice and say do you really love
money like I'm going to give you
material things you get all the jewelry
you want okay you get all the jewelry
you get all the luxury designer clothing
but you have no power status very few
men will take that but if I say to you
look bro no jewelry no
roxes but you walk in a room and men
fear you want to be you men 80% of your
time take that so power is a very sex
specific thing
women are um or at least the female sex
don't seem as driven by that but but to
be clear I find about 20% of women are
also driven by status now if you hold
your hand up I've never seen your hand
can I see are you right or left okay so
this is digit index ratio pretty good
science some scientists disagree with it
but there's about 40
studies you have a lot of testosterone
you're a very driven ambitious person
this you're very similar to me this is
higher this is pre-
testosterone Androgen kind of recept
when you're in the
womb you get like this dosage which sets
the course of your life you are probably
more driven when you see a hand like
this and you and also you can do other
testing to to find this out driven a
little bit like n the will to power the
will to be known the will to be
respected you have a podcast you're
building a personal brand by the way
there's nothing wrong about it sometimes
people try to go no that's not me I'm
not materialistic I'm more like Einstein
I don't believe that much in free will
you know if you read the the Walter
Isaacs in book on Einstein pretty smart
guy he's like that a free will doesn't
exist now that's if you're a Quantum
physicist you'll probably disagree and
say that Free Will does exist if you
love power some of it's predestined you
can see it in the womb and so I think
men have to come to grips with their
Will To Power because the will to power
also can drive you can be your demon you
know it can be your angel sitting here
or it can be your demon wealth and power
are like a pitbull and when they're on
your side they're wonderful guardians
but if they ever turn against you
they'll rip you to shreds that is very
succinct so the thing that I I agree
with all of that and the thing that I
would add is once I came to understand
that the true nature of money is to be a
facilitator in and of itself it doesn't
do anything I mean if you really think
about it in this the analogy I'm about
to make made a lot more sense before uh
crypto but what I used to tell people is
money cash only has potential heat
energy in and of itself you can burn it
it will release heat that's really all
it has except for the fact that we all
say that thing is valuable and therefore
as long as we believe in it then it will
carry um some further potential in it
but the potential that it has I think
people always think it's going to make
them feel about them eles the way they
feel about other people that have money
so they look at that person and they
admire them they want to be them they're
driven by Envy I've heard you say that I
think that's pretty accurate and they
think oh all this envy that I have for
that person if I get the money I will
feel complete powerful amazing but the
reality is Money Can't Touch how you
feel about yourself yeah and so
ultimately I think the thing that people
strive for is to feel a certain way
about themselves which is why if you say
to some you can be feared and admired I
think there's something about that that
and there is an element of I think part
of that particular question the thing
that turns them on is oh they're going
to fear me yeah because people
instinctively know that they will then
be able to wield their power yeah
because if I were going to Define power
I would say it's the ability to manifest
your will and I don't mean manifest in
like a woowoo sense I mean manifest as
in you close your eyes you imagine the
world you want to exist you open your
eyes and you actually go make that world
come true and so the person
who that I mean maybe Putin is even more
so just because he controls a country
but when I look at somebody like Elon
Musk and he can seemingly kick off
billion dollar companies uh at will I
mean it's
bananas and that is somebody who imagins
going to Mars and builds the thing
necessary to get him there including the
legal battles and things that he's going
to have to go through uh to make it all
come true the just brutality that is
something that difficult that expensive
that high risk and so all right you've
got wealth which is really it's just a
facilitator it's it's not going to touch
who you are but everybody thinks it's
going to change how they feel about
themselves then you have power which is
really about the ability to make things
happen in the world right and on that
one I think people tangle up because
everybody not everybody it's become so
commonplace to be disgusted by somebody
like me who says I'm here seeking power
right I come seeking power I am trying
to get as powerful as I can now if you
think that means I'm trying to hold
dominion over other people and extract
from them so that I can myself have I
get why you would think that's gross but
if you understand power the way that I
understand it which is you power is
agnostic I could use it to manifest a
will that is horrible Hitler enters
stage right or I could try to make the
world a much better place I can bring
things to the world that are wonderful
Gandhi Mother Teresa right they had a
Will To Power that was extraordinarily
strong it just manifest in a way that we
can all get behind versus somebody who's
doing horrible things but if people are
able to tease the sort of emotion that
they have around what they think money
is without ever really thinking about it
or what they think power is without ever
really thinking about it from the
reality of these evolutionarily granted
tools like if they can tease that apart
then they can say okay I'm going to
bring these things on I'm not going to
pursue wealth for the sake of having
money I I there are things in my life I
need to facilitate and money is the
great facilitator therefore cool I'm
going to need some amount of money and
then hey I have a vision for a better
world and I want to have impact and so I
need to get good at manifesting my will
but I don't think people understand that
you need to read the denial of death a
famous book on this subject I would just
say I agree but remember the Pitbull
analogy power wealth absolute power
corrupts absolutely and so the not
denial of death is an interesting book
on the subject of when we what happens
when we seek power so you recommend I
read that as a warning uh not a warning
but a a deep dive into the repercussions
one of my thing my mentor Joel Salon
used to say the worst thing in life taii
is to grow old and realize you got good
at the wrong thing so I'm a big fan of
what's the go deep and what's the
unconscious
motivators that everything that we think
we perceive we want power and we want
money is the conscious mind but like
Freud said by the way much of what you
said was Freudian and nian you know but
the mind is like a Iceberg 10% above
water 90% sitting below so I would say
you have prob the way I would see you if
I might be so bold please in the
unconscious mind is you have a genetic
predisposition towards Mastery and
Status your mind your conscious mind you
brought this up we justify to ourself
this is kind of the concept you know the
kind of outdated forian concept of the
ego the sup you know you had the ego and
you kind of have this super ego which is
like so Collective Society but the
simpler Way To Think about it is our
genes make us want something
unconsciously and then our mind
justifies it everybody just momar karfi
you know Kim Yung Kim Jong Un he does
not see himself as a bad man he sees it
Adolf Hitler if you there's a very
famous story about Adolf Hitler he kept
a picture of a guy behind him and this
was an English soldier in World War I
there was a battle I think it's called
Yi is how you pronounce it in Belgium
a young Adolf Hitler unknown to the
world s foot soldier comes out of a tent
or a little Hut no gun it comes out with
no
gun an English Soldier has a
rifle and Adolf Hitler young Adolf
Hitler says Don't Shoot Me I'm unarmed
and the man said for a split second I
thought I'm going to kill him anyway
he's the enemy but he said I didn't like
the morality of killing an unarmed man I
let him go that was Adolf Hitler that
man felt guilty on that that's 19 17 16
17 about
1939 okay guess what happens that man
feels guilty every day Adolf Hitler
keeps that man's picture calls him on
his birthday annually no joke thanks the
man and Hitler perceived that in the
conscious mind is proof that God was on
his side he had a vision for changing
his people it was a time when people
were more nationalistic all countries
were nationalistic for the most part so
Adolf Hitler had this he used his he had
a genetic predisposition he had a
horrible family upbringing he had a dad
who was abused him physically high
levels of narcissism if you read there's
a new book about the family of Adolf
Hitler I just read it about two months
ago you know his dad if you're not how
to read people his dad had NPD
narcissistic personality disorder we now
know under fmri machines
you're missing gray matter in your brain
so you don't even know you're a
narcissist his dad's a hyper narcissist
has all the attributes of it um Adolf
Hitler we know now narcissism is like 78
hered
heritability it's insane so we think so
I told you I don't believe in Free Will
Adolf Hitler is born this man who is the
product of a narcissist he then goes
through Wars put on by big governments
which caused PTSD for people he comes
out of this already with a genetic
predisposition to be a little bit wacky
on top of that he sits through World War
I probably has literal artillery
reverberations it like causes Mental
Illness but he never saw himself that
way he saw himself as a god Warrior and
he had proof If he was on the show adol
H what say what do you mean I could have
been shot the English man the hand of
God came down and said I have a special
purpose for this man so you have to we
always have to I have to be careful that
I'm not justifying my proclivities my
genetic
predisposition and
saying by golly this is the right way
now I'm not I'm not saying your way is
wrong I'm just saying I try to think 360
about myself Adolf Hitler was wrong he
was a madman and he uh his will to power
uh was a complete lose lose he lost his
life German lost my grandma's from
Germany my grandma met Adolf Hitler in
1936 out of park her sister I mean her
best friend Molina meshman who wrote a
bet New York Times bestselling book you
can read um and is dedicated to my
grandma in the forward asking my grandma
for forgiveness cuz willita meshman
turned my Grandma's family in and the SS
kicked down the door my grandma always
told me she remembers it before she came
here to California she escaped um my
grandma knew was a mad man in 1936 my
Grandma's good to read people he came in
a park Malita meshman that were both
about this was in 1936 this is when Time
Magazine the mass media was stupid back
then they made you know Adolf Hill was
the man of the year on the cover of Time
Magazine I think it was 1936 so my
grandma's born in 18 so she's 18 years
old Molina meshman says
Maryanne there's an amazing man you need
to meet he's giving a small talk in our
local park my grandma goes there she
says a car pulls up there's 50 people
100 people there there's no top on the
car you know it's convertible Mercedes a
lot of billionaires made in the uh in
the Nazi regime and War and he starts
yelling my grandma's like I hated the
guy right away I don't my grandma didn't
like people who
yelled will of power
jeans we think we have free will did
Adolf Hitler have free will Einstein
said no now I when I say this on social
media every Tom Dick and Harry writes Ty
you don't know what talking about I'm
like oh yeah I'm supposed to believe you
over Einstein I'm like Believe It or Not
Einstein was a fairly smart guy um now
there's newer physicists that
disagree quantum physics kind of shows
that things can appear out of nowhere
which is closer to our conception of
morality that people make a choice but
there's still a lot of machines that we
literally have that show before you take
an action it appeared in your mind in
the unconscious 10 seconds before or
10th of a second before meaning what you
perceive your conscious mind to say to
do your unconscious told you to do it
we're the [__] of our brain so going
back to you this is a long winded some
people say I Yap but hey I'm a
professional yapper you might be
listening every once in a while in a
yapping session there's something to
take away
um I think you are and me and everybody
in this room we suffer from something
called fds frequency dependent selection
nature says I like to diversify in every
country in the world women when they
give birth is about 50% male sex 50%
female sex there's a value in sexual
reproduction that's why there's two
Sexes some species don't do it ferns
don't do it lesser evolved species ferns
earthworms they don't have male female
sex but it's a
diversification in a community like in
this room I know in this room not
everybody sees the world like you you're
more of a Will To Power about 25% of the
world especially men was distributed the
genes to seek Mastery status power but
nature or God is smart if there's too
many people and I'm more like you if
there's too many people like
us can you have all Leaders with no
followers you must have people who
follow you can't have only Architects
for a beautiful house like you live in
you need somebody to be able to build
the house so nature fds frequency
dependent selection says all right we
got enough of those guys let's present
25% of population is driven by
mating vant automates up to 90% of
compliance work for Frameworks including
sock 2 ISO 270001 and hippoc compliance
getting you audit ready in weeks instead
of months and saving you up to 85% of
associated costs with over 200
Integrations you can easily Monitor and
secure the tools your business relies on
and vant scales with your business
helping you successfully enter new
markets land bigger deals and earn
customer trust so join the 6,000 plus
fast growing companies already using
vanta to improve and prove their
security so they can win more deals
shorten sales cycles and deepen
relationships for a limited time vanta
is offering impact the listeners a free
trial when you sign up at
v.com impact I just did a did a seminar
with women's CEOs it was amazing women
sometimes score as their unconscious
motivators 95% mating some men do too
there was so nature goes I want some
people who care about love and family
but I don't want them all because I need
a few gangas
cons I need a few I I need sometimes
population gets too big I need the
scourge of God that comes through and
modulates a population so they don't
overeat Nature's been doing that for a
long time time a Tilla the Huns stalins
Putin I'm not justifying what they do
I'm just recording history this is the
known history of man nature says I want
about 25% of people who actually like
material things there are people who get
tremendous
pleasure from holding a stack of cash
it's not me and you do you keep a lot of
cash in your wallet nope yeah I have a
cousin he is of that fds nature said I'm
going to give you the jeans he likes
physical things you know who those
people become those people become
sometimes are great artists because
artists is holding a thing like a
sculptor they like the thing
Michelangelo was probably a thing driven
person he says I saw in the sculpture he
said I saw in the Rock the treasure he
could see that's a material driven
person me and you I I don't care like if
if I didn't wasn't on camera I don't
know what I'd be wearing right now
wearing a tank top I'm not when I did my
here in my garage video people didn't
believe me when I said here in my
garage but here's my new Lambo but you
know what I like more of the material
things knowledge because I am a movement
Freedom person so you it'd be
interesting I haven't quizzed you but
you may be let me ask you this you got a
choice I wire you a billion dollars okay
you're already rich but let's say I wire
you a 100 Bill okay
cash no after tax but you must be
celibate No Love No romance for the next
years and and your wife you got a great
wife I was just talking to her you guys
got to live apart for 10 years you're
just a solo
man or you have a massive love and you
got a million bucks is all you'll ever
have in your bank account which one are
you taking million bucks very easy
okay next so that's m
higher than material okay
next you can have the love this million
bucks in your bank account at all times
not extraordinary wealth but
wealth no Freedom you will have to go no
further than one mile from this house
people can come to you no freedom and
you must work on a 9 to-5 schedule
normal 9: to 5 Monday even if you work
for yourself Monday to Friday
okay
so you get the love no Freedom or you
get the freedom but your wife got to be
a part no sex for 10 years which one you
take I like this I would really need to
understand the I mean the the reality is
I would trade nothing for my wife so if
we had to be a part for 10 years
basically you could do anything but Rob
me of my health and I'm always going to
choose my wife but that's my wife versus
if I were single I would say the first
month you met her uh first month I met
her I was not in love yet so but no
women no sex 10 years that would are you
taking the
freedom that would be that would be what
I would advise myself unless I'm no no
but I care about the unconscious where
are you going um what would I have done
back
then even now fast forward pretend you
had been single all these years you just
met your wife you're getting along three
months but you going have to break it
off and you have ultimate Freedom you do
what you want no schedule you travel you
got a little bit of money not much but
life has nothing better to offer you
than love so I'll take love okay love
last you keep the love but you're an
unknown Soul you wield no power you KN
will no respect you have no real impact
on the world you might have it on your
mom dad you know friends you're
anonymous but you got love or you have
the Ultimate Will To Power you are both
loved and feared as con and the
Barbarian would say or King is
Con the thoughts in your mind become
real and you change the world but you
are celibate for the next 10 years
assuming you had just met your wife now
which one yeah I mean assuming that I
had just met my wife I would and didn't
know I you have to kill my now
understanding that life has nothing
better to offer you than love so now
from this perspective for sure the love
okay but at the time in no no way shape
or form would I've have chosen anything
other than being able to build and
create the things wanted to build and
create for sure that's what I thought
because notice the way you speak of the
world and the conscious you just gave me
a long talk before I gave my long talk
about how you can change the world with
power and money gives you more Mastery
you don't want the material things you
just what we just talked about just
unfolded I would say you're primarily
environmentally you've now become mating
driven you were born Mastery and status
and you taught yourself to be wiser
okay very few people do that you're more
advanced than the average person but
these are very strong impulses and this
one's so strong that if I talk to your
wife she's not here one day we'll have
to have a round table with her there you
probably naturally continually pull this
way there's probably a tension in your
marriage that sometimes she has to check
and say no love is more important you're
you're trying to influence too much the
world she wouldn't say it in in that
term but you're 100% correct so I
in my marriage because we agree that our
marriage is our highest priority yes
because there's nothing I value more
than what my relationship has given me
not success not adoration literally all
of that pales in comparison to truly
being seen and loved and building
something together and sharing a life
just really is if you're wired like me
it is the peak of what life has to offer
you and it's extraordinary and I could
never have imagined something so
wonderful however
that doesn't stop me from having this
incredible drive to want to have impact
I mean obviously it's called impact
theory for a reason so that really
really matters to me and being able to
balance the two and this is I think the
core of my thesis because all I'm saying
is I want people to understand what
money and power actually are because
once you know that that thing in your
hand is a sword and not a hammer yeah
but that a hammer exists
then when you need a hammer go get a
hammer when you need a sword go get the
sword and I think people are really
delusional about what they are because
from the outside the only way to map the
territory is with your emotion about how
you feel about people that have that
thing and so it gives myself very much
included a warped sense of what it is so
for the first decade of my
entrepreneurial career I was just
chasing money mhm and it made me
profoundly unhappy now had I not gone
down that road of chasing money getting
money and still being unhappy then I
never would have realized oh wait this
isn't the game so to your point of you
chased Mastery from day one that's what
I would have told you you I would have
told you to be I would have told you to
be like a Tony Robbins I would have told
you to be a leader of men that's fine
look man it's here's what's interesting
though the ultimate scam in this world
mhm is I literally am one of the only
people talking about this all the
[__] a million therapist what the
[__] are therapists and psychologists
doing sometimes people when I do a talk
like this they go to are you a do you're
SP speaking on health are you a doctor
are you you're speaking on psychology
are you a psychologist are you you know
you're speaking on business do you have
a Harvard MBA I
go have you
noticed doctors have failed us nobody's
healthy in America almost nobody psych
everybody's unhappy psychologists have
failed us have you noticed that most
people are poor
economists and business teachers that
failed it so I've gone on my own and
it's a tragedy that I have to do this
but I do this the opportunity I make my
mess my message you and I are the victim
of a time in history The Rise there's
three Trends I just wrote a new book The
Three Trends Trend number one is the
rise and fall of governments it's still
it still corrupts us now we went through
government schools you know we went did
you go to college yeah okay I dropped
out you know that they charged you 80 to
200,000 of debt to go to college and
university and they never take you they
never have you take a quiz or do
anything [__] career counseling [__]
they don't do [__] they don't help you
know the unconscious mind it would have
been
better for you to seek Mastery first and
the good news is you've come full circle
like a boomerang you're back to it I
could have predicted that 10 years ago
no matter what you'll come back to the
will of power what would your mom and
dad
like uh you'd probably have to ask me
questions to get an answer my mom is who
was sure they're right more neither of
them no to their
detriment who overthought things my
mom how would you describe your dad um
very um he doesn't know how to manifest
his will he feels like you make the best
out of life he's he had a thing on his
desk that I remember to this day in his
office that said the beatings will
continue until the morale improves and I
remember when I first saw it I found
that absolutely hysterical and then as
I've gotten older I realized oh my God
my dad believed himself to be a cog in
the machine and his only Outlet was a
seric humor and but are you sure your
dad didn't have a will to power but at
the time in history men were emasculated
and there wasn't social media there
wasn't the ability to start your own
business are you sure your dad didn't
have the will to power I think everybody
has the will to power to many people I
don't so you don't see it as a spectrum
you see it as a binary oh no no for sure
there's a spectrum but at some point on
a 1 to 100 scale my dad's low for sure
very low I'd like to meet your dad yeah
I'm guessing yeah I'm guessing you take
that because genetics play a big role in
your world view no no because he was
conscious of the fact he was making
jokes there's an ancient proverb much
truth is said in jest mhm your dad would
what we make jokes about what we
self-deprecate is often our unconscious
mind that we're not powerful enough to
do so many men I saw this the second I
put a Lamborghini video
out all the virtue signaler men said I
don't care about Lamborghinis who's this
douchebag those guys specifically
commenting they were the ones who wanted
the lambo but they couldn't get it so
they how do you it's called pain
avoiding delusion you see it ultimately
sometimes people have full psychotic
breaks with reality but how do we cope
with the pain of this world we pretend
we don't want that thing but the fact
that your dad had a joke on
his desk means it was it was coming
bubbling to the top yeah so I I think
everybody has the will to power for sure
now you may I don't think they do okay
so just a second ago I asked you is this
on a spectrum yes no or is it binary cuz
if it's on a spectrum then I will give
you something people are going to be way
lower on the Spectrum I'll even give you
that it probably breaks way more men are
way more will to power than women all of
that makes sense anecdotally with what I
see out in the world but uh and look I
have not sat down and like broken down
my dad but experientially I will say
that my dad is so content in his life
now outside of um he's no longer working
he's retired and he loves his life now
his life is the classic puttering around
the house what did he do uh was a
purchasing
manager so what about your grandparents
uh now my grandfather on his side he
died when my dad was 6 months old so I
never met him but from just what he did
in life was very high on the will to
power which is what uh he was an
inventor and he um had some patents and
ended up getting in a scandalous
relationship with my grandmother who was
44 years younger than him at a time
where that was like clutch The Pearl
Caprio I oh yeah yeah yeah my
grandfather yeah sorry your grandfather
dicapri billu yes exactly so um he ended
up having to sell all his patents and
moved to a small town which is why by
the time I got to my dad there was no
money and he grew up without a dad and
terms uh yes and I don't know him so I
literally have no idea people go deep
into your jeans you're 25% people
parents are 50% related to you
grandparents are 25 you tell people that
because you want them to understand
themselves it's interesting so you and I
I agree that's super powerful you need
to understand yourself amazing but I am
fatalistic when it comes to genes so I'm
just like look you're you are 50% of you
roughly is hardwired you're not going to
be able to change it so understanding it
very useful but the 50% of you that's
malleable is where I focus so if you and
I were being interviewed separately you
would tell a tale of know your genetics
understand how this all plays out don't
fight in fact one of the quotes that I
pulled from you was it's something like
uh here it is biology is God and Society
is man-made and you were basically
saying don't fight the FED don't fight
biology like you are a slave to your
genes now that gives me hives I agree
with
you it isn't that I don't like it so
here in fact everybody says that uh you
if you are not religious you do have a
God I have a God and that God is
Effectiveness I am obsessed with
Effectiveness now all of that for me is
predicated on I believe that your goal
ought to be honorable so that you don't
end up with a Hitler who's very
effective at killing people that is not
interesting to me I don't celebrate that
but if you're trying to build something
honorable now I'm like hey [__]
if you are not paying attention to what
works and what does not work you are
making a huge mistake so I get it
there's some amount of me that is
absolutely hardwired and there's nothing
I'm going to be able to do to stop cool
I'm not going to fight that because I
think you're right but I am going to
spend an inordinate amount of time
focused on the part of me that can
change and now if you understand you are
both things you can't change and so you
better understand them and be able to
contend with them and do not become
their slave this is why I tell people to
become you must get emotional control
because evolution is [__] with you
but over here there are things that you
can change and just all of my thinking
everything that I do is optimized for
the part I can change so I don't
disagree with anything that you're
saying I just I what I'm trying to get
people to focus on is please don't think
you're a blank slate which is I think a
big part of where you're coming from the
the just Madness that I'm watching
unfold with what's happening in society
when we're no longer being chased by a
lion and so people can indulge any
intellectual fantasy that's totally
detached from what's effective you know
who predicted this by the way CRA uh
Nichi for sure marks so I'm not a
communist in fact this weekend I'm going
on a debate where I'm the capitalist
predict exactly he basically predicted
if you create too much wealth and ease
people go cucko for Cocoa Puffs that was
one of his things against capitalism
he's like Communists we're all going to
stay Farmers now communism failed in his
conception but he was right about that
thing I give a man Credit Now when you
it's maso's hierarchy of needs at the
bottom when we're all kind of farmers
like the Amish they have 500% less
depression than modern society because
everybody's like I got to Milk The Cow
and you just stay you don't try to think
think you're more important but as we
move up Ma's hierarchy of need the top
is individual expression so I saw I saw
an art Exposition in New York City where
somebody was there was a group watching
them and the art was he was using his
body as a cheese grater and somebody was
lifting him up and down and he was
grading cheese and people were like wow
this is magnificent art and I was
thinking K marks was right callar this
guy's insane he needs a farm he need
this guy needs to be milking a cow or
cutting down a tree for firewood I agree
with you on that by the way on on
genetics it's domain specific IQ is like
mostly IQ height eye color skin color is
like 80 plus% heritable some things
aren't heritable at all if we all are in
a car crash at 100 miles an hour uh
there's no herit you can't have
inherited a gene to withstand that if
you don't have a seat belt on so there's
you always got to think about there's
things you can change you know that
there's an AA Alcoholics Anonymous
prayer I don't remember it's the
Serenity Prayer it's like you know God
give me the strength to change the
things that I can change and the
whatever Serenity to accept the things
here God grant me the serenity to accept
the things cannot change the courage to
change the things I can and the wisdom
wisom to know the difference that's kind
of a woo woo way of what we know
scientifically is there's some you can't
but but my thing about going to your
ancestors we don't have to talk about
this forever this is a we need to do a
psychology talk at one point
but the re everybody's lost in this
world I rarely find somebody who's on
the right path now a simple thing can
you define the right path first know
thyself first piece of self-help in
modern world the Oracle of Delia you go
to Greece there was a there was a cave
and they rote on the wall the best
advice that mankind had add up to that
point and the first piece of advice was
know thyself but back then they didn't
understand what nii said the mind's an
impenetrable Fortress you only learn
about yourself through friends and
enemies that's why you know the best
advice practical advice you can have on
what career to take what enemies
compliment you on because an enemy never
gives you a false compliment so I have
people who love my brand people who die
for me literally I had somebody hack me
the other day and a random guy wrote me
on WhatsApp don't know how he got my
number he's like I hacked the hacker and
I was like who are you he's like dude
you've saved my life you'll never know
you never have to know I am You' made me
millions of dollars [__] that guy I
destroyed him so a bigger hacker
attacked some random hacker so I have
people love me and I have people who I
I'm a I'm a force I split people down
the middle and the people that don't
like me I still listen to their comp
like [__] that guy is's just a good
marketer but he doesn't know what he's
talking about then I become a marketer
[__] that guy I don't agree with
anything he said on that podcast he's
damn entertaining to listen to then I
become an Entertainer so for go back my
mom who's sitting right there my mom
used to even your own parents will give
you compliments when they're madest at
you I'm so I'm so mad at you she my mom
says you're a bullog when you believe in
something you won't stop well that's my
strength too when I build a business you
know know if it if it's failing I'll
stick with it till I rebuild it so know
thyself listen to the compliments of
thine enemies that's one I used to say
you do this thing called I call it ulian
Destiny like geometry you take four
circles where they all connects what you
should do with life so number one is the
compliment uh of enemies or the
compliments uh the uh compliments of
your mom when she's mad at you also
count the other circle is thine
ancestors when we say no ourself what is
is ourselves we are the DN DNA is some
scientists think the most magical thing
on earth Einstein said the most magical
thing on Earth was compound interest
other smart people and I agree with them
said the most profound thing they
haven't figured out is what is DNA where
did it come from did Alien seed the
planet we don't understand it's the
closest thing to having been Immortal so
when I say I'm Tai Lopez am I Tai Lopez
or am my mom Andrea and my dad Ernest
and his father and so Know Thy ancestors
because in ancestors you will find the
clues to your strengths and weaknesses
and so in my ancestors what are
strengths I mean one of my my
great-grandfather was a great well I
have many great scientists in my family
Martin burkenroad my mom's dad was a is
a famous scientist he was a child
prodigy and taught at Yale before he had
an undergrad degree so
teaching now what's the weaknesses
there's much mental illness in my family
my dad had MPD narcissistic personality
disorder probably a level of psychopathy
too he ended up in prison you can see
the prison from here Long Long Beach
terminal
Island um so he had a temper my dad will
kill you no problem you know everybody
has this thing about I grew up talking
back to my parents I didn't grow up with
my dad all the time but a nobody ever
talk back to my dude come out of prison
my dad was the OG he's blind in one eye
like knife wounds and all this stuff
from Harlem but that's a weakness you
have to control I have to control rage
and anger so the second Circle you draw
you got your compliments of enemies and
you draw your ancestors and make sure
you at least I like to go back to
great-grandparents great-grandparents
have 12 and a half% so you have eight
grand great- grandparents that's 8 and a
half% they're as related to you as your
two damn parents who are 50% your
parents are just a more concentrated
version of that okay so then the third
one is what you talk about consciously
on a Saturday night when you're not
working I talk a lot about psychology
when I'm not working it makes sense for
that I became a marketer it became sense
that I became an entrepreneur
entrepreneurship you make money when you
know people isn't it ironic that the man
consistently the richest in the last 10
years is you know if some of them Jeff
Bezos Zucker these people did a lot of
psychology courses too psychology make
you wealthy Elon mus the best applied
psychologist on this earth oh he read I
watch
him effective altruism um manipulate the
soul of mankind and hopefully like you
said for the will to power it's for good
but don't ever think he's not a master
puppet man who's now he he bought
Twitter so he now has 5% of the globe
check his app and he can weave the web
he's the Spider-Man not the Batman so
you need to through what do you talk
about on a Saturday night that's the
third circle and the fourth circle what
you been doing because there's a lot of
Clues on what you been doing what were
you doing before impact the quest what
before
quest uh it was a software company none
of those things will get you where you
want to go before that what were we
doing at 14 film making film making yeah
yeah that Mastery status to be known to
be it is it's an expression well so
ironically yes to I didn't think of it
that way so I'll I'll explain it how I
thought of it and then you can um help
me go a layer deeper so the way that I
understood myself at that time was I
have I clearly have a much bigger
emotional reaction to uh film than other
people I'm more drawn in I have a
stronger emotional reaction um I
remember them longer they really began
to shape my sense of the world so for
instance the Matrix to me is a perfect
metaphor for The Human Condition so when
I saw that movie it actually gave me a
framework with which to think and so I
often tell people I think in movies so
there's a whole series of things where
I'm a hyper responder to that art form
but I also at 14 was a hyper responder
to poetry so I remember one day going
okay do we become a poet or do we become
a filmmaker and the reason I became the
filmmaker you're going to love this is
because there was no money in poetry and
I could get rich in film because this is
like the 80s early 90s when Hollywood is
still popping off when Hollywood had
status yes oh for sure you're a stat
you're you're not a money guy I don't
think you don't have jewelry you're
dressed nonchalant you're a status but
mating is there so it's like like like
you said it's like I want to be a poet
what a poet do well with all po if
you're an ugly dude become a PO poet po
do well with women my friend man you
know some Pablo nuda mean you read Pablo
nuda to a woman all a word smithing I
mean yeah not all poets but many well
what do you think Drake is what do you
think what do you think I think a pop
star I do not think he's a poet now he
is word play yeah but he uses ghost
writers and so I've heard I am not a
drake scholar but um yeah that's
interesting cuz going back to your
earlier point he's somebody that can
control culture now that understand
people they understand the cultural
movements mating Mastery it's very
possible um that would have been a good
that's you're in your thing you did it
you did it life came full circle you
tried to move away from your ulian
destiny and oh I did not try everything
in my life because so here's the tales
funny we were just talking about this
before I started rolling people do not
know me for the thing that I consider
myself I consider myself an artist I am
obsessed with storytelling video games
film making comic books like like that's
that is my life it has been my life
since I was 12 years old from the time I
was 12 I knew that I was going to be a
Storyteller yes now the bad news is that
graduating in the late 990s from film
school I did not know how to break into
the industry YouTube doesn't exist
there's no cell film with a camera a no
budget film was $100,000 I'd never met
anybody with that kind of money uh so
end up teaching film meet these two very
successful guys they're like look you're
coming to the world with your hand out
and if you want to be a filmmaker you're
going to have to control the resources
and so I was like okay word I need to
get Rich I'll go into business I thought
it would take 18 months it took 15 years
but it worked so all of the like chasing
money and all of that was just so that I
could do what I'm finally doing now now
if I were to recommend to somebody a
strategy this would not be the one right
go straight what you want correct which
back to my God which is Effectiveness
you needed my ulian destiny this talk I
did I needed it too where were you I
needed 2 years ago I needed it you know
why I became what I am when I was 19 I
went to a talk one of the first
millionaires I knew was a guy named Alan
Nation he spoke in a little town of
Virginia and I came up and I had
questions what do I do and what and I
said nobody seems to have the answer I
said nobody seems to have the answer and
he said that means you have to become
that
person and so I've spent my life
becoming the person that could give me
the answers that I couldn't find from
the world at 19 I found my destiny
too you found yours that's why I said
nature laughs
last or you ever heard of the movie Of
Mice and Men yes of course famous movie
yep famous book famous book well the
full poem goes something like the best
laid plans of mice and men go
arai it's like we have our conceptions
but in the end God laughs last and says
in my frequency dependent selection I
need you to be this you will be this and
some people will become it which is you
you won and some people don't I think
that's your dad but your dad won through
you your dad it would have been very
interesting you should ask your dad what
did he want to do at 14 your dad you
might have be the winner your dad you
know what I bet you it is I'll tell you
something interesting that people don't
talk enough about that's crazy
mind-blowing to me we can read people in
many ways you know I my cockiest thing
about myself is I will put a million
doll down and go head-to-head at anybody
at Cold reading people I think I'm the
best person at reading people and I
don't even think the second best is 50%
as good at me and I will put money and I
will swipe money anybody want to go to
Vegas and lose their money put a million
bucks down we'll go cold read a Long
Street of people now that's my
narcissistic side coming out okay I have
acknowledgement of this uh but you're
allowed to be a narcissistic in one
thing and people will give you that if
you start getting too narcissist people
get mad but
um Yung you should listen to Yung on
YouTube YouTube is a gift to mankind
before he died somebody some interviewer
interviewed Carl Young the disciple of
Freud one of the greatest men to ever
Liv and and there's a quote I keep on my
phone this is if you ever want to write
a quote down and get a tattoo write this
quote down he wrote a textbook by the
way the concept of introvert extrovert
was invented by by Yung he invented Ed
the worm he also invented the word
psyche that we use now or sorry Persona
so listen to this this is a mindblowing
he wrote a book called psychological
types in respect of One's Own
personality one's judgment is as a rule
extraordinarily clouded so I meet people
one of the ways I read people is I'm
like tell me what you think of yourself
and I'm like okay that's what they're
not so I've cut out 50% of the thing
your dad self-conception he's probably
opposite and but he remember what Thor
said the mass of men lead lives of quiet
desperation what's called resignation is
confirmed desperation your dad
eventually resigned
himself and he's like I he was stuck in
he was he was stuck in a matrix in time
where you it was very hard to be an
entrepreneur when Jeff bezo started in
'94 he had to borrow from his parents
about
$250,000 to put a website up that was
the rise of corporates it just there's
three trends every man and woman needs
to know to create wealth the first Trend
in modern civilization was the rise and
fall of governments there was a time
where government cared about you there
was a time when the US in the 1800s
there was less than 1% income tax the
government wasn't out to exploit you
there was a time when there were men
like Abraham Lincoln who was no saint
but he wasn't there trying to get rich
he wasn't going to retire from the
presidency and make a million dollars
with a Netflix thing or a book special I
forgot one of the recent presidents made
aund Obama has a $100 million book deal
after there was no opportunity Abraham
Lincoln died so did JFK so there was a
time when governments were there for you
they weren't overreaching there wasn't
much
taxation they weren't printing too much
money so there wasn't much inflation and
there weren't so much corruption you
know that Abraham Lincoln every single
day I think Monday through Friday he had
hit the White House open you could walk
in and talk to the president they had a
line in the 1800s you could talk to them
they were accessible that has
fallen what we've seen through recent
events Co and other events government is
not only not nobody's waking up thinking
about you but they're probably there to
[__] you Elizabeth Warren passes a law
that allows her to continue to trade
stocks so she makes hundreds of millions
of dollars maybe on inside information
nobody knows I don't know but I've heard
people say
it Abraham Lincoln was in trading stocks
from his he died he died because he was
an accessible person and Mad Men came
in so it was a rise and fall governments
then what was next the rise and fall of
trend two was the rise and fall of
Corporations and your dad was a victim
of that see starting let's say 1920s you
had the rise of Corporations you had
Coca-Cola you had IBM they were nameless
faceless corporations people got trapped
in the nino5 that's the Matrix your dad
probably had an eye he was a purchasing
agent he was stuck in that thing you
could not start a business on your own
if your parents weren't rich like even
in
'94 to put a website up cost in that
time was $ 200,000 dollar inflation
adjust that cost a million bucks now you
go to Shopify or WordPress you put a
website up for
Zer so 2020 you had the rise and fall of
governments being useful to you you had
the rise and fall corporations you know
corporations used to be loyal to you you
had a job in the 1950s you got a pension
you retired at 60 they didn't fire you
that's all gone now the rise and fall of
Corporations they'll [__] you not help
you so what's left the rise of the
individual and you're early Trend
Catcher And I'm an early Trend catcher
but it just started really in 2020 and
so what you were able to do that your
dad would could not do because he was
stuck in that I call it not the Matrix I
call it the machine it was still the
corporate machine he didn't have the
opportunity to express his will to power
but the good news is he lives on through
you and you did it because there's now
tools for the individual to win before
to do a show like this I remember in my
time were to buy TV space because there
was no internet you had to have a
million UPF front to run commercials I
remember reaching out from rale North
car I want to run a Nationwide
commercial and the guy saw on TV ad said
yeah it'll be a million bucks I'm like
what but now the rise of individual you
can start a Facebook ad for five bucks
so we live in better times and so
everybody has to catch the rise of the
individual as I told you it used to be
the government would give you good
health advice now the government has
lied to everybody about health and it's
been that way in the 50s they were wrong
and they said you should eat margarine
Not Butter you shouldn't give your
babies breast milk you should give them
formula so now you become an individual
you figure out your own you used to be
stuck in a classroom that taught you
nothing now it's the rise of individual
educate
thyself you and small community you
build a tribe now you and a tribe and so
it's good times man it's good times
Everything's Good to quote the famous
comedian what's his name that got
cancelled but now it's back everything's
amazing and everybody's
anxious everything's amazing build a
website for zero doar you could
self-educate yourself you could go to a
gym I think most gyms have an $8 a month
thing people didn't even know about gyms
a 100 years ago now you can get in shape
reverse reverse aging with you know
weights reverse aging so everything's
amazing but as Carl Marx said we're too
high up the M Hier needs that's why I
tell people you know what you do here's
a hack I have never told people this on
a podcast but I'll I'll tell you Tom
what you
do is you have the wealth of the top of
the masa's hierarchy of needs but you
take the cautionary tale from KL marks
and you live closer to the bottom of
hierarchy of need that's why I spend
half my time on a farm now a little Log
Cabin I can have big man I've lived in a
big mansion 17 bedrooms 18 bathrooms you
know I got a little log house built by
the Amish keep yourself grounded or you
will go kooky and we live in a society
where people are never be stuck with one
species people are stuck in cities with
one species yeah they got the little
poodle dogs which most people don't even
like their dogs cuz they keep their dogs
trapped in a little apartment dogs want
to be free but whatever I'm not
insulting anybody but if you really
cared about the dog no dog's happier in
a city I know it's a necessary evil but
get away find a little piece of land 90%
of the world lives Urban now that means
there's going to be 90% Insanity in this
world you got to get to the bottom of
where you're just having I told your
wife this before I was like you guys
should buy a little farm she's like I'm
a city person I'm like but for your
sanity for your sanity don't spend all
the time in the city rise and fall of
the Roman Empire everybody says men talk
about the Roman Empire why years ago I
read Gibbons you know the rise and fall
of the Roman Empire he said it was it
became too Urban too many lawsuits too
much Corruption of politicians they used
to say we got to go back to our old
Roman ways when we lived on the farm and
out in nature you know and so um many
empires have fallen when they become too
Urban so the Greek Empire City States
all this is a problem get back out
Native Americans were happy and the
Amish are the closest things to Native
Americans and they are the happiest
people man it's crazy okay we're going
to have to clash World Views here so I
think there there's so much about what
you're saying that that I agree with
very much I think it's bang more
interesting when you disagree um okay so
the the thing that I agree with one just
on the the last part I think that um
Getting Back To Nature is very
interesting and while both my wife and I
are very much City people yeah to your
point about you really have to map even
if you're talking to your enemies to
figure out exactly who you are I
completely buy what nii said about we're
we really are blind to ourselves and
it's only through feedback we actually
have a system here at impact theory that
we got from Rayo called um the dot
collector and the dot collector allows
people to give you real time feedback
constantly all the time on like 40
different variables and then over time
you develop this cloud of dots that
really begins to tell you are you good
at this thing or not good at that thing
and it is pretty surprising how often
you're not good at something you thought
you were good at yeah uh so that has
certainly been eye opening but, 1600 uh
the average man overestimates his
ability to have a street to win at a
street fight by 1600% Jesus you ever
meet man he's like that's what I told
you men are out here so out of shape now
they're pulling muscles during podcasts
but man's like I could whip this guy's
ass yeah anyway little not not at all a
little bit of delusion goes a long way
the most delusional people are the
happiest so
but they die younger you know that they
I went to Argentina if you run into a
fight that you were that outmatched yes
you're going to die younger I went to
Buenos Iris my friend got married there
he's Argentinian and his karate teacher
went who was a very overweight Asian
dude who overestimate he literally when
we're all flew down the same time he
goes I'm a black belt I got you all
protected he's like he was real [__]
he's like I know what I'm doing you
looked at the guy you're like bro you
can't protect yourself from Donuts how
you going to protect Us in Argentina we
land in Argentina first day we go visit
it's called The Pink House it's their
version of The White House guess who's
the first man robbed that guy that guy
he overestimated he wore a Rolex in
Bueno you don't wear Rolexes in South
America a motorcyc somebody came up
tapped him on the shoulder he had a
backpack said your backpack's open
another dude came on a so it distracted
him another dude came on a moped and
grabbed his watch off while he was like
looking back the other dude jumped onra
so this that karate guy is running down
the street after a moped full of two
guys I mean with two guys on his stalls
I ran him down I said bro what you going
to do when you get there you're going to
stop these both dudes going to turn
around and stab you to death you know
overestimation of men men also
overestimate their looks you know women
there are delusional women but more men
think they're good-look
than that are ugly than women do that
surprises people cuz now Society is
saying men are women are more delusional
women get quicker feedback other women
if they act too pretty women pop in your
their DMS and say ain't that good guys
never care about their men other friends
looks anyway off on a tangent very
interest well I mean it's all related to
the same idea of understanding
yourselves the foibles that we all have
psychology being at the root of this I
mean it it really the reason I want to
start this interview with you in
particular on this is I really do think
you are good at identifying what people
are like which is exactly what made you
such an effective Market marketer um and
so the the delineation I'm trying to
draw because I think it really is going
to matter in people's lives is there is
what is and then there is what could be
and I think even though I actually don't
believe in free will you have to act as
if it is real otherwise I you slide
denialism and I don't think that's an
effective strategy and even if I'm just
pre-programmed to say that hey I'm doing
my job so it to me no matter what you
need to act as if you have free will you
need to look at the different branches
options in front of you and say which
one is going to and what I advise people
to do identify your goal and then what
choice is going to be most effective and
moving you towards your goal very simple
so taking my dad and Dad I love you
sorry to drag you into this podcast uh
the way that I would look at that is
that my dad did not have the right ideas
to build his frame of reference yeah and
if you build the wrong frame of
reference which quick encapsulation your
frame of reference is your values and
your beliefs so your values are what you
believe ought to be true of yourself in
the world and your beliefs are what you
believe to actually be true about you
and the world so one is sort of a moral
judgment and the other is just a
recognition of fact the problem is we're
terrible at recognizing facts so we
often times especially if we don't know
ourselves well we're painting ourselves
into a corner that keeps us smaller than
we need to be now because my life is so
evenly divided into me before set ideas
and me after set ideas I know the path
that I was on my parents taught me to be
a good employee to keep my head down do
as little work as possible and avoid
punishment at all costs so that's how I
was raised and then I realized to
achieve my goals that Playbook isn't
going to work and because I rank highend
mating all of this comes down to I feel
ashamed that I'm not living up to my
then girlfriend now wife what I told her
I was going to do and become in order to
win her affections and be able to sleep
with her and all the amazing
chop and men are just driven by three
things food sex and maybe boredom too
yeah it's interesting although I do like
your you tagged a fourth one onto that
which was Envy right yes I I have my not
that I'm smart enough to uh may be so
bold to correct shopen hour but uh
steadies and pessimism I threw a little
tweak in it Envy yeah I I would agree
with that you know how many men do [__]
that they don't want to do but they got
to beat that guy over there yes like I I
don't even want these shoes but this guy
has the shoes therefore I will have the
shoes that I don't care about yeah even
if it's not pathological so for instance
we build video games yeah and you always
want to work a leaderboard into your
video game because it's fun even if it's
only like the leaderboard only shows you
and your friends yes it's still fun to
be like oh I managed to beat you I
climbed the Snapchat was the first thing
to threaten now Tik Tok has threatened
Mark Zuckerberg's Empire of Facebook
WhatsApp and Instagram but the first one
to threaten it was this the the youngest
billionaire up to that time of Evan
Spiegel I think he was a billionaire at
24 whoa married a supermodel came out of
nowhere I'm talking two years or
something I forget the story I think he
got fired from something else like [__]
them I'm going to build Snapchat becomes
a billionaire snap score so PE the more
you snapped you would do streaks and all
this [__] I remember dude snap was a
I snap really helped me I caught it
talking about catching Trends I was one
of the first people to a million
followers on Snap they wouldn't tell you
how many you had which I think was a
mistake they didn't they hid the Envy
but they my rep told me a you had a
million I remember Kylie had 10 million
Jesus but they would highlight me on the
snap story I got 18 million views one
time on my first on my story on the
first snap it was crazy but anyway yes
going back to your thing Snapchat was
smart just by snap
score you know they basically caught up
to a 10-year-old Facebook and Instagram
m
yeah I mean anybody that can do the new
thing that can tap into the psychology
Envy yeah I mean that certainly is one
of the plays um my thing is so going
back to my dad it's he he had a frame of
reference that was not effective if his
goal was yeah I really want to exert my
will into the world I want to do the
things that I think are amazing if you
had asked him and I know because I have
the thing he wanted to do was work on
cars for a living that was the thing he
just LED
but anyway he lets himself get trapped
in expectations he shouldn't have had
kids he has kids that takes you down a
certain had kids where you wouldn't be
here should had kids no my dad will be
the first to tell you he shouldn't have
had kids but that he did he's obviously
so kind and loving and I love my dad and
we get along great and he's like look I
shouldn't have had kids but now it's the
greatest joy in my life like I mean the
whole thing people should have kids
we'll get into that because I actually
agree with you despite the fact that I'm
not having kids but I think it's the
safest you're not done I'm done yeah
we'll see have you ever been Shing
something and change your mind uh yeah
but let's say I changed my mind my wife
is 44 so bonance my friend we we'd have
to go way the [__] out of our way anyway
uh we'll come back to that very
interesting super important conversation
and as a PSA I think the vast majority
of people if you want but if you're on
the fence the vast majority of people
should for reasons of populating the
world and fulfillment I think
fulfillment is the reason I say it but
okay so anyway my dad frame of reference
not moving he doesn't have a growth
mindset so he doesn't believe I can do
anything that icing your property that's
okay I owe you so Adrien put it on my
bill one armrest I like this you should
just keep it this way forever that you
were here yeah I know when people ask
you just say I had this Maniac on you
don't a maniac here and uh we argued
about Free Will and he you know started
ripping things and throwing just exactly
one we won't have to argue about but you
got to embellish this is Hollywood
Hollywood doesn't tell the truth man I
have a very difficult time embellishing
it's not my shtick you have cartoons on
the wall they're not real that's
embellishment interesting storytelling
to you is
embellishment well cartoons I see Wonder
Woman there there ain't no woman that
looks like that it's embellishment by
the way can I throw something out that I
haven't told many people that is
sometimes people ask what's the current
things running through your mind it's
not the Roman Empire I did that like 10
years ago that's old news real old the
thing to be thinking about now is what
has the world for forgot to put into the
calculation of Life 1 plus 1 is two okay
we got that one down great even big
government knows that 1 plus one $1 to
the IRS plus $1 to the Cali tax attorney
equals
$2 if you make four I was in the 52 and
half% tax bracket yay for the US you
every million dollars you make you get
$520,000 to the government and they
can't even fix the Pooles I don't know
where that money went probibly
to I won't say to who I know anyway
here's the thing nobody thinks
about and I'm not the person to invent
it but I'm GNA popularize it there was a
several famous
scientist who came up with this term of
risk aversion humans are risk
averse so we have all these things you
have Myers Briggs 16 personalities you
know you're an entp ENFJ
infj somewhat doesn't help people to
find out they're an advocate or
something it's a stupid test that 800
million people have taken no offense to
that company but the Myers Briggs test
is that's okay for dating but it it's
subpar because we forgot one thing do
you you know there's a possibility the
only difference between you and your dad
is he was a low risk taker and you're
high I find that to be the most
predictive thing I have a big you know
I've got phone sales guys who sell for
me I used to teach them this system
called the pace system you analy
people's personalities you break them
into practical action social or
emotional and you tweak your sales pitch
to their personality okay I now have a
more advanced system called tens
threat-based empathy based novelty based
uh structure base it's more based off
hormones but I'm the first person to
introduce there's no quiz ever made by a
human that factors in your risk
tolerance now I tell my sales guys [__]
reading people tell me all you got to
know is two things about somebody do
they actually have any liquid money
because you can't sell somebody
something for 10 bucks if they only have
nine bucks in the bank number two are
they low medium or high risk taker dude
you can live your whole life if if
you're watching me you want to learn how
to read people and by today the end of
the day by midnight be better than 99%
of all psychologists all therapists all
great thinkers when it comes to human
behavior you can just learn one thing
learn to read people so let me ask you
something Have you ever punched somebody
after age 12 no
okay bungee jumping any definitely not
do you do anything
scary I run a
company well is the ultimate risk yeah
no I agree have you ever bet it all on
something that could have lost at all
yes a significant amount yeah my entire
house every dollar I had in the bank
okay so you're a high risk taker only
entrepreneurially but that counts so
actually scientists break out
fearfulness and so there's a hexico
score 25 the most accurate personality
test was 25 sub facets hexico H is for
honesty E's uh emotionality X is
extroversion a is agreeableness C is
conscientiousness O's openness and new
experience they all break down into sub
facets there's about 25 of them under
emotionality it actually is very
intelligent it differentiates a test
built in like 1990s differentiates
between fearfulness which you have high
fearfulness you don't like going on
motorcycle 100 miles an hour you don't
like you know jumping out of a plane I'm
like that too I don't like physical pain
I've already I do Jiu-Jitsu I've done
boxing like a lot of my life I've
already been hit I'm not excited about
that but we have low anxiety we have we
have ability to take risk anxiety high
anxiety and an ability to take risk
which is so just so you know um not
really but in your conscious mind you
have anxiety MH but in your behavior my
friend an anxious lowrisk taker does not
bet their home does not bet at all could
you have lost a lot yes here's what's
interesting Ty so I I think you're
making a Mis assessment of the
complexity of how people make these
decision so for
instance hang with me the reason that I
was willing to bet the house is I my
sense of identity is not tied up into
whether I win or lose a business so I
will have no emotional Devastation if I
lose that house so I went to my wife I
got her Buy in if I lose a house
whatever it is what it is but if I don't
that is a high that is a low anxiety
behavior my friend well tying it to
anxiety I think is going to be
misleading because if I lose everything
I'm good with it there that's not high
anxiety so here here's where this gets
complicated I struggle with anxiety
every day of my life so experientially
being tomilu is a constant anxiety
management game uh now I think that my
anxiety though is born of the body it's
not born of the mind and so it's diet
based it's a dysfunction in the gut
whatever whatever and so now you've got
experientially I'm anxious but
temperamentally I have a high threshold
for risk when it matches my frame of
reference which we never close loop on
that everybody has a frame of reference
it is the funhouse mirror through which
you view the world and you're going to
make decisions based on all the weird
distortions that are unique to you if I
thought losing my house or my business
failing would make me a loser then I
wouldn't have done it because if I if I
valued myself based on what other people
thought of me and that were true that's
how I would play I am very much while I
fully acknowledge we are both the shout
and the echo so the shout is what you do
the echo is what people think about what
you do
but I'm not swayed a lot by the echo
that comes back it's certainly a factor
but it's not a driving thing for me but
I do have a set of beliefs about what I
ought to do and I in my belief system
ought to swing for the fences I ought to
leave it all out on the field and play
to win and so that sense of identity and
belief set and values led me to say ah
risking the house while it is certainly
High Financial risk is not a high
emotional risk and I value how I feel
about myself and I'm by myself above
everything yeah I would just say simple
ways unconsciously you have low anxiety
and consciously you have high anxiety
you have your mind people's mind can
race but if you look at their I might
look this is the difference between me
and where I when I go on podcast where
if you understand this one thing about
me I'm not that interested in I find
people's conscious mind boring I'm not
talking about you I the conscious mind
is a very Bor be bored by my conscious
no it's not you I'm not I wouldn't have
come back on your show I don't find you
boring at all I find you
interesting in general if you look at my
behavior I think to be a therapist would
be torture to me why how are you feeling
today about how do you feel that's all
the I don't care because in
general that is just 10% of you like the
iceberg and so for you I a therapist
would be like you're very high anxiety a
guy like me who cares about what you
do you're very low anxiety you bet it
all and you win high risk High reward so
we're kind of talking semantics with
each other I don't think we are I think
this is where our World Views Collide in
a very fascinating way maybe English
doesn't have enough words for what like
the eskimos have a hundred words or
whatever for snow I think we don't have
enough words in English for anxiety
because there's many types of anxiety
maybe around anxiety we don't but I
think we can get to an understanding of
where we have a different frame of
reference and because we have different
what I call Base assumptions we are
we're not having the argument at the
right level and so uh the way that I see
it is you have a base assumption that
the 50% of you that's hardwired is
effectively all you need to pay
attention to and I'm saying I agree with
you you should no we agree on that look
I'm an entrepreneur too if you don't
take action you will lose if you only
rely on your jeans for example LeBron
James you meet the guy I I once I'm
friends with one of the Lakers and he's
like yo I'm in New York you want to come
out to a club with us I get there and um
I knew somebody was in that room that
was special cuz they're like frisking me
down I even have my own security usually
I can come into places they're like well
we do extra security here and there's
LeBron James the man's kind of not the
same species if you see him okay he's
not real he's a 6 foot eight 8% body fat
his head's about that big he's just a
big kind of non Homo Sapien okay Homo
Sapien super Manis
okay that's jeans but if he had eaten
Doritos and had no drive and no risk
taking it takes a lot of risk to try to
go become a basketball player he would
have been a nobody so don't I am not a
fatalistic in the sense and I do think
like quantum physics has shown us that
there is is possible free will too it's
a very Weir thing this B did you see the
new Oppenheimer movie no so it'sa
probably going to win Academy Award for
multiple things even though I thought it
was only a seven out of 10 I like the
new movie that came out better the one
with DiCaprio the what is it Adrian
flowers of the killers of the flower
Moon that's a better movie with dairo
but there's a scene that nobody
catches so Oppenheimer the main
character he comes and at the beginning
at the end he talks to Einstein out by a
pawn for a few minutes
and they finally reveal at the end what
Einstein whispered to him and he said
something like this a the man who seeks
uh who believes in uncertainty comes
from me for certainty so classical
physics the way we used to understand
the world is things were certain that's
why Einstein did not believe in Free
Will it was certain you're predestined
it's fatalistic but quantum theory which
Einstein hated and went to his death
kind of fighting Hawking you know came
up with like this M Theory there's five
one to the 500 uh universes in the world
Multiverse when you go to measure things
you change them so you can never measure
what's actually happening you know
string theory that things are wrapped up
so small and that they just appear out
of nowhere like Hawking talked about
that
so Einstein joked in the movie it's a
very intellectual joke that zero people
got in the audience but I was like ah
it's like the man who is believes in
uncertainty comes for me to certainty
what Einstein was saying is we
want certainty and we want uncertainty
and what you're what I'm saying is
there's a certain certainty to our life
that comes from our family but to feel
good I need to know there's uncertainty
that I can fix my damn life that sucks
and I do and what we now know and I'm an
amateur physicist not even an amateur
but I listen to the best and I'm good at
remembering what people say you know
there's probably both happening there
there's a you want to hear a good
another good quote this is a crazy pull
up the book contiki who who has ever
read you ever heard the story of kki
it's one of the great adventure stories
this Norwegian guy wanted to prove that
you could go across the Pacific Ocean
let that stick in in a little
raft and he did it it may seem at times
as if invisible fingers move us about
like puppets on a string but for sure we
are not be born to be dragged along we
can reach back and grab the strings
ourselves and adjust our course at every
Crossroads or take off on any little
Trail into the unknown that is probably
the truth we are both puppets that are
being manipulated by our genes and
nonfree will that's classic physics but
yet quantum physics says we can reach
back and say I don't like the strings
and pull back a little bit that's a
great analogy for what I believe
it's interesting uh that spills into
whether we're defining Free Will as
deterministic or whether cuz you can we
need to have Sam Harris on here do you
have a time machine in your um you have
a lot of cool Tech things here I have
cool I want to go collect Einstein you
know sometimes people argue with me Ty
you don't need books to become wealthy
you just go and do stuff and I ask them
do you think it's good to have smart
people in your inner circle mentors oh
yeah yeah yeah change your Social Circle
change your income okay do you think
Aristotle was a smart guy would it be
good for him to be in your inner circle
hell yeah he's dead [__] you need a
book so I don't really like books it's
just the only it's a time machine so I I
I don't know it would be amazing if we
had a council of I call the Council of
12 you know you need 12 wise people in
your life the president has 15 the
cabinet so you could call it the wise 15
I tell people the second you start
making wealth you find your cabinet and
in that 15 people you should have both
the living and the dead so you need a
lawyer I was talking to I got one of my
got my second student who came from
nothing who I think's going to become a
billionaire who follows me he's living
in Puerto Rico various reasons in Puerto
Rico but uh I told him where's your
family office of 15 wise advisers he
doesn't have them yet I said make sure
half of them are alive and half of them
are dead and so sometimes to create
wealth you have to imagine what if
Warren Buffett was was sitting in this
room what if Rockefeller was sitting in
this room what if what's the guy the
African uh wealthiest person ma massu
massu or something African look him up I
always forget his I grew up in the damn
West they don't teach you the full story
no he's a dead he's dead um look up
richest African in
history so I imagine I have the wisest
Asian you know Mogul in history and and
uh and the wi yeah mua mua he they said
maybe he was the wisest wealthiest
person if I had all those people in my
business every time I make a decision
you ask both the living maybe a couple
lawyers accountants mentors but you also
ask the dead am I making the right move
and you'd be amazed at that simple
mental exercise which anybody can do how
you start becoming wealthier from
that instead people go inward too much I
don't like that movement you know all
the answers are within and happiness is
from within well that's a misleading
sentence like if I want to learn let's
say I only knew English and I want to
learn Spanish is all Spanish within
me if I want to live in China is all
Chinese within me and I go inward no you
actually have to go outward and find
another person who speaks Chinese and
the best thing you can do is go live in
China and it rubs off on you your Social
Circle so change your Social Circle
change your living and dead advisors and
you change your bank account forever
people don't like to do it because
that's what I was saying society's
become too in too much into Free Will
where I can figure it out myself no go
back to your ancestors they were wise
they survived 10,000 we're all the
product of 10 I call it the whisper of
10,000 Generations you know at what did
your great-grandfather do to make it I
don't think we study them enough I like
that religion in in in the East they
they they go to their they say that
Chinese worship their ancestors I don't
know that that's true they respect their
ancestors you should go visit the grave
site of your grandma and grandpa and
great-grandparents once a year and
contemplate what lessons they had for
you they are you you are them it's very
interesting so it's interesting so in a
single sentence uh I can I can pinpoint
uh where I think you are going to drive
yourself crazy uh with trying to predict
the world might have already happened
and that is I think that looking back I
think that the part of you that is
malleable that creates your frame of
reference the frame of reference is so
much more important to understand than
your
genetics that's my single sense possible
and if you spend time trying to um learn
from your ancestors and all that I think
it will be fascinating and I think
people will enjoy it because there is
something about knowing about your past
but I think it's it it is going to be
cuz even your contemplation of your past
will be driven through your frame of
reference and so like when I look at
never did I think I would start talking
about sort of global issues or political
issues and yet here I find myself
because the the when people say that um
politics is Downstream of culture what
they mean is that politics is Downstream
of frame of reference and culture is a
huge part of what shapes your frame of
reference but it really is just a game
of frame of reference and if you look at
the world from the position that all
money is evil power is a dirty word then
when you see somebody that has power you
will naturally assume that they got
there through you know either
intellectual violence or actual physical
violence and depends on how rich they
are the richest is mostly my friend once
told me first hyper rich kid that I knew
came from nothing he said Ty all Empires
are built by Blood Sweat and violence
the top Forbes list the top 10 people
they have killed before I promise you
they have killed there's bodies you ever
read the the story of Las Vegas where a
lot of money was was made in America
there's a lot that movie Casino where
Joe pes's taking a dude out of a trunk
of a car and burying him alive wasn't
that peshy or was that dairo was peshy
right yeah oh that that's a true story
there's there's I I always think it's
funny when people admire billionaires I
learn from billionaires but I I'm in
business right now with two guys on the
Forbes list and I've been I know many of
them they are
Warlords they are Warlords does that
mean that through their own selfishness
they can help the world yes I'm still
capitalistic in that
sense all I want to say is the that is
your frame of reference playing out and
so you and I look at that you're going
to see what you but I didn't have that
frame till I did business with them then
I'm like oh this man's definitely killed
before such is the nature of a frame of
reference it really changes that's what
I'm saying it's the part of malleability
versus the might be a simulation all our
memories might be I might not have ever
done impact Theory four years ago it
might just be an implanted memory I run
that thought experiment all the time
it's very helpful so I'll wrap this uh
segment up with with the following
statement dear anybody at home uh you
have a frame of reference it is to you
what water is to a fish you're probably
hyper unaware of it and yet it controls
everything about your life um you're
going to make decisions Einstein said
that the most important decision anybody
will ever make is whether they live in a
friendly or a hostile universe so what
he's saying is it's not objectively one
way or the other but you're going to
decide and then you're going to see that
decision echoed through everything so be
very thoughtful about what you decide to
believe in this case about money power
seduction whatever all right speaking of
Seduction uh women I want to talk about
Tai Lopez and women one are you married
nope are you going to get married not
sure I'm a marrying kind of guy okay do
you have kids maybe interesting so out
of curiosity without revealing the yes
or no obviously everybody listening
assumes that means yes but setting that
aside um is not answering that purely
about
safety I think some
things don't need to be part of the show
H but I would understand not your show
I'm talking about my show I don't think
some things don't need to be part of my
social media I think for many reasons it
can be safety can also be wanting people
should want their kids to grow up in a
downto earth grounded
place I lived in Beverly Hills where
everybody's parents are famous and the
kids are part of the fame it doesn't end
well I remember no joke a kid telling me
I was walking I was going for a jog
outside my house in Beverly Hills I'm
going and a guy pulls up he's like hey
I'm a follower of yours and I live on
the same street as you talking l uh and
he was like
16 and he's like yeah I've been dealing
with a lot of struggles and his struggle
was his parents gave him a
BMW and all of his friends had Ferraris
and I said I don't want my that's not
good for a kid talk about Distortion of
reality his reality was like he was kind
of like die I'm trying to make more
money and I'm like why and he's like
dude I don't fit in in school and like
you know he was trying to he was kind of
misquoting the wealth things like he was
reading you know it's like I need to
change my Social Circle I'm dealing with
16-year-olds my some of my friends only
have BMWs but some kids in school have
Ferraris and those are the real thinkers
and thinking Grow Rich and I want to be
like them and I was like Wella when you
have kids don't put them in Beverly
Hills put them on a
farm that I actually hear that but I
still don't understand why not admit and
so that this comes back to Tate was the
first person I saw that was like I'm not
going to answer the question I think he
since like just answered it I don't know
I don't follow him closely uh and then I
heard you same thing that you don't even
want to say one way or other having them
grow up on a farm never telling people
how many who where all that that I
understand but not wanting to
acknowledge whether you have them or
don't well can also be part of what the
mother asked for okay fair enough it's
like so for me it's also whenever you
have kids you got two sides of the story
so for me I look man I on kids what I
tell people
is most people should have kids a big
problem in the world is people who can't
have can't support kids are having a lot
of them and the Nations and societies
that would produce productive citizens
are having none and that is an
existential crisis for Humanity Elon mus
says it's the bigest threat is
underpopulation that doesn't mean you
know you have people poor person in a
village having 12 kids kids and all the
kids are malnourished they should have
less kids but there's a genetics for
example we need intelligent people on
this worlds okay not only intelligent
you need other facets but that's a very
genetic thing and so you ever seen the
movie Idiocracy what happens if only
cuckoo people have kids also G mental
illness is extremely heritable things
like schizophrenia even anxiety some of
these are off the chart way more than
50% heritable narcissism MPD a lot of
these are highly heritable almost as
heritable as height you know it's a set
of genes there's no one gene but there's
a set of gen so we need people who are
stable having kids but now KL Marx was
right about one thing as we move up
Mel's higher of needs to the top and
we're all seeking our esoteric
expression of oursel like I said the
artist cutting using their body as a
cheese grader in a New York City Art
that's the that person maybe they
shouldn't have kids but uh
we need people at the top of M hierarch
of needs also having kids it's good it's
important okay give people your best
argument so I'm not having kids you
maybe don't have kids uh why do you
think people should have kids Beyond
population or is that the
reason oh well look here's my nihilistic
side somebody at call I I do a lot of
private mentoring now people pay me 100
Grand or a million dollar to aill
million dollar to talk to me eight times
a year some of the biggest influencers
you all know I won't say their names are
in my program and one of the big ones
ask me Ty do you ever struggle with
nihilism he's made all the money he's in
his 20s he made 18 and a half million
profit so far this year make 25 mil yeah
23 it was a good life lives in a zero
tax jurisdiction keeps all of it has
more money and so he's now moved up
hierarchy of need needs he bought him
food shelter water love you have all
this and safety's next and then love and
now he's up at the top and he's becoming
nihilistic he's like I don't know what I
live for dude it's like I wake up and
it's like I can have almost any woman
he's a good-looking guy I can have any
girl I so girls aren't that interesting
because they seem too easy to get
anymore and so
that my nihilistic side is what does
anything
matter okay so so people say why do I
want to have
kids okay and if I give the answer well
we're kind of programmed to have kids
and we'll in general will be happier and
Society will turn out better if people
who can have healthy kids have healthy
kids and they go yeah but it's just like
it's so narcissistic you're just giving
birth to another one of you and how
narcissistic but I'm like couldn't I say
the
inverse isn't it narcissistic by
definition to not have kids
to focus on thyself I mean if you want
to go nihilistic nothing the end in
nihilism means nothing matters so when
somebody tries to come on this side and
go why does that matter and they get
nihilistic I'm like but by definition
you don't even M why does it matter that
I even answer somebody why does it why
does your Mastery matter why does it
matter if we improve the world we
improve the world so homo sapiens get
better but 100 million species we've
wiped off the better humans get often
times not always we wipe other species
off the planet so you talking about the
frame so your frame let's say or
somebody with your frame is like I can
improve the world with power but that's
just your Homo Sapien
world you might be wiping out a spe
species of beetles you know you might be
wiping out a species of highly
intelligent whales so I don't know if we
go too far down
nihilism I just come back to like the
Amish they don't have to know why
everything is they just go because I'm a
hum a monkey doesn't have to dissect why
he likes bananas just let I was in qual
lur about a month ago I bet them monkeys
get Smart one tricked me I had a whole
stack of them one monkey comes up to you
and um I got on video and kind of like
hey buddy they don't say they don't talk
of course Another Monkey came from
behind took all my damn bananas so
humans we're not we're 98% same DNA as
uh
chimpanzees we're 50% the same as
bananas we're 70% the same as flies so
when I get nihilistic and I try to
dissect myself and just go well honestly
nothing matters and we're all Stardust
and we know at some point we all
disappear we also know we might not even
be real there many very intelligent
people think we might be a smarter
version of ourselves video games we are
we are Grand Theft Auto my friend is the
one of the main guys who built Grand
Theft Auto some people used to say my
house over there that he put I used to
get a lot of comments your house is in
Grand Theft Auto and I reached out to
him I'm like did you put me in Grand
Theft Auto he never would answer but um
we are Grand Theft Auto man and then
it's funny we play video games but we
might be a video game too it's like you
know like when you see yourself in a
mirror there's too many mirrors it keeps
reflecting back and back it goes
Infinity that might be us we might be a
video game of a species with a video
game that is the a video game of a
higher species that it never ends
there's also I was talking to chat GPT
the other day and I was going you know
sometimes if you look at the world I'm
not a flat earther but flat earthers
have this thing that we're like in a
hard Dome kind of thing I'm like I asked
Chad BT is it possible that everything
we know we are one
atom inside an entire other universe but
we think we are and Chad GPT has long
winded answer
but some people think that that might be
true we kind of look like that it's
almost like a you know it's a it you can
go down this that's why I like a farm
when I'm on a farm I have a farm or
actually farm with horses I have two
Farms two Organic Farms I have one talk
about make the world a better place I
buy rundown chemically abused farmland
and I improve it that's my give back to
the world it's important and I have a
farm that I use tractors got my big John
Deere here and then about 2 hours away I
have a farm in the middle of Amish
community and on that farm I farm with
horses I plow with horses you want you
ever read the book flow by male cheek
sent me high you should read that book
okay I met him before he used to he came
to my basketball court in Beverly Hills
you know Flo says the optimal life is
like the Sailor like you forget what
you're thinking about you just are doing
it like the Sailor is pulling the wind
is blowing and your boat is flying and
and you're like pulling the ropes but it
becomes the unconscious that's the
happiest state of a human when I'm on my
farm and you have these big horses I
have big Belgian horses I have sometimes
I'll put six of them together and you
pull the rain you're get up ghaw and
they pull it's the most Zen thing ever
I'm right there they're so big that I
don't think about let me check my phone
cuz you make one mistake I've seen
people get killed with horses Amish guy
once get kicked by a big horse in the
chest like a cartoon he shot through the
air it was insane I was like a cannon
got shot out of a cannon so I'm I'm
pulling the horses and I'm just there in
the moment I'm in flow and so I think
that Freud was right like KL marks
there's a book my favorite book is
called civilization and his
discontents and so when we think about
should we have kids and should we not
have kids and what's the purpose and
should we change the world world or make
money at the end of the day what's
better than all of that is just
flow and it needs to be something
primitive that you're doing some people
feel it by going camping some people
feel it by hunting some people feel it
with art or music playing the I play the
piano sometimes you get into flow the
more important than all the things we
talked about Mo both you and I like to
make money it's thing we do um we
justify it in various ways and maybe
it's true maybe it's not but
never get too
disconnected from pre- civilization has
made us unhappy you know what's funny
when I was listening to you earlier you
said something I'll try to remember you
said there was two polls there was like
the
poet no no there was like the M you
wanted to be like conqueror yeah you
wanted to win but yet you know Society
is like you get married you ask me about
marriage marriage is is an invention of
mankind none of your ant most of your
ancestors didn't get married what do you
mean got married you think they went to
a church house 10,000 years ago and went
to a judge there was no
governments people bonded and people had
humans Homo sapiens are what we call
serial monogamists so there was monogamy
10,000 200,000 years ago but we were
uncivilized and what Freud said in
literally the most Immaculate set of
pages I've ever read and I've read many
things is civilization's discontents the
second chapter and he says it's a
trade-off by becoming
civilized we decrease the chance that
your next door neighbor would get
envious of your place and you wake up
and he hits you overhead of club and
takes this
house so you've increased your safety
but you've done it at the expense of
your primitive side and when you have no
primitive in your life you know what it
looks like looks like America 60%
obesity 80% out of shape we eat too much
we walk too little we overstimulate our
brain too much you
know we don't
fast we have 24/7 everything we need we
overuse the dopamine parts of our brain
Tik tok's the ultimate drug dealer in
Mankind's history they're literally drug
dealers and you can see it on
machines human attention span has
dropped to 5 Seconds that's now less
than a
goldfish so animals have been less
dopamine hijack than us all of that
civilization civilization civilization
civilization money is part civiliz there
was no money before you know why there
was no Wars long ago there was battles
but there was no Wars because there was
no civilization with large governments
there was no billionaires before you
know why because you didn't have any
tools one man could out hunt another man
by double but now 10 men on the Forbes
list look it up they have more wealth
than the bottom four billion people in
the world is that good or bad I don't
thinking good or bad but there's a
trade-off we're a highly civilized world
and one of the things you tradeoff with
civilization is high concentration of
wealth which is
great if you know to make money like you
and I do we get to be in the elite but
the downside of that is there's
revolts there's revolts against the
wealthy and it's it happens now
sometimes I don't know if you ever get
you ever see someone comment Eat the
Rich mhm comment on your stuff comment
on my stuff we have to think about that
I live in Scandinavia a lot it has a
better what's called Jenny index or
Genie index some people coefficient yeah
it's basically like Philippines is like
one of the worst it's the disparity
between the ultra wealthy and the ultra
poor I live in Norway is basically like
the best or Copenhagen Denmark you have
more and there's a lot of good things to
be said about it and there's real there
are billionaires but so I don't know I'm
uh you could say I am a um bipolar
wealthy person in the sense that
sometimes I like the civilization which
includes money but I also like going to
the
cabin and having the hor
all right help me connect that to cuz
originally I was looking for your best
like kids so why why have kids that was
a question that started have kids
because you were made to have kids and
that should be a sufficient
reason just from a genetic standpoint
you are programmed I think I Ian I could
go way deeper and there will be some
sort of psychological punishment
absolutely if you don't the most I I
read I don't know if this is true what I
read was the in the United States the
class of people experiencing the highest
levels of
dissatisfaction are women who did not
give birth ever in their life between 45
and 55 because you know by age 30 a
woman has about 8% of their viable eggs
of their life still alive or still
viable I should say uh by age 50 the
average woman has zero viable now men
don't experience that level of
depression because like
alpacino just had a kid at 70 what what
look up Pacino he just had a had I just
saw he had a with a 29y old he just had
an 83 he's 83 83 so men wow some people
say well why are you picking on women
well women are on nature doesn't give a
[__] about politics and being woke
nature just goes there the rules I don't
care and so when I see that I feel like
nature leaves Clues so I'm going wait a
second
okay that's that's that's a major clue
when a whole class of people experience
high levels of depression the way I
think about life super simple
is there's happiness is your
compass so you you want to go north and
when you wake up depressed every day now
there is biological kind of genetic
depression but most people experience
environmental depression it's telling
you you're going the wrong direction
damn it so as a society if you see a
large group of people experiencing
depression you ask what are they doing
and you go the other way if you guys
want to make your financial goals a
reality you need to come up with a sound
strategy and begin investing I highly
recommend you check out facet facet
provides you with flexible access to cfp
professionals and a team of experts
across taxes benefits and more to help
you understand and expand your financial
opportunities instead of taking a
percentage of your portfolio facet has
an affordable flat fee membership and
when you make more you keep more for a
limited time facet will wave the $250
enrollment fee for new annual members
head to
facet.gov adviser this is not an offer
to buy or sell Securities nor is it
investment legal or tax advice past
performance is not a guarantee of future
performance terms and conditions
apply I also for wealth I don't know why
you know the Forbes list is better than
a Harvard NBA I once tried to get a
Harvard NBA they were accepting and then
they're like you don't have an undergrad
degree and I'm like [__] I'm like the
most ghouled person in the world at the
time I'm like what you talking about you
can let me in marketing school I have
kids who follow me from Harvard they're
like our professors pull up your videos
but Harvard wouldn't let me in because
they got a rule that doesn't make sense
you got to have an underground degree
well I discovered in my anger that
there's a better Harvard NBA it's called
the Forbes list there's a real- Time
List It updates every 10 seconds and I
begin to look pull pull the list up now
Forbes list real time so you just look
there and I start to look for patterns
like I said there's a pattern women 45
to 55 who could have had children that
didn't extremely high level of
depression if you believe that science
so I go here and I got Elon Musk I got
Bernard alal from Louis Vuitton I got
Bezos Amazon Ellison I call him the
anonymous billionaire he he built it
with software Buffett Zuckerberg Gates
Larry Page know the ninth guy Steve
Balmer that's the richest guy I know
look he's at
110 wow Sergey Brin the Google guys and
I start to go what do these men all have
in common so if I'm asking myself a
question you asked about having kids all
these mofo for the most part 80% of them
had a lot of kids before age
30 now i' I've posted this online and
people go you don't understand the
difference between correl you know
correlation and causation I'm like you
don't think I know the difference
between causation and correlation what
are you talking about I I not only know
about it but I've spent a decade
studying it I'm not
sure that it's just correlated I think
it's causitive when you see things at
that
level Elon Musk how many kids did Elon
Musk have before 30 I think he had like
six kids before he was like
32 and now he's at 11 kids it doesn't
seem to be hurting him it doesn't seem
to now can I prove it's causitive that
the reason he's the wealthiest man in
the world is yeah no of course not and
it's nothing is that causitive unless
you're an idiot it's not the straight
line causation of him but it certainly
didn't hurt him and so I began to look
and I meet a lot of guys including
myself where we're tricked by the
machine the machine is classroom
education and low independent thinking I
believe in the rise of the individual
you must think and so I believed as an
entrepreneur that having kids would
distract me from making wealth but I
should have just gone to the Forbes list
it's a free Harvard NBA [__] it didn't
affect any of these guys it didn't by
the way Bill Gates is number seven Bill
Gates is the best Money Maker in modern
history if he hadn't given away he owed
54% of Microsoft he gave most of his
shares away to charity he didn't give
cash away he gave shares if he had held
on to him he'd have $1.2 trillion right
now Jesus Microsoft's about two let's
pull up the market cap of Microsoft
thing is 2.4 trillion last time I
checked so anyway Bill Gates had a ton
of kids young so I can argue this from
many dimensions I can say the most
depressed people do the opposite so I
want to do the opposite of them I mean
are depressed so I want to do the
opposite I can if my goal is money
Mastery
status I go well all the dudes with
money Mastery status I can't prove it's
positive but it's certainly correlated
so it's a good bet to make and um I
think it's
logical so I kind of gave the reverse
engineer way I gave the kind of overt
engineer but I let take Logic for a
second you're a social media influencer
we have followers right you got a lot of
followers I got a lot of followers isn't
that just like
children we have a group of people who
Ally themselves with us they follow your
Instagram they follow your stuff they in
they do things that we do they listen to
us isn't that like a
father so as I told you nature laughs
last I meet people who go I'm not going
to be a father yet they're a social
media you are a
father you Town B are a father now we
take this a little further wouldn't it
be good to have some of those allies
blood related to you yes it would be
because one thing we know is that you're
less likely to be betrayed by Family the
long there's two longest running
institutions in human modern history
one's the military the Greek army has
been running for thousands of years
there's still a Greek army the second
longest running business uh in the world
you go to France there's a restaurant
that I went to it's family-owned since
the 1500s whoa so families
persist we don't you know do you know
how many Geniuses were related to each
other arasmus Darwin these people are
Rel their cousins so your Will To Power
that you have Tom which is to have a
positive effect on the world to use the
tools you have wealth reach
followers will also be very logically
and efficiently accomplished with your
own children in fact pull this crazy
thing up pull up the woman and man
there's a millionaire this this
fascinates me they had 20 kids this year
blood related she took 20 eggs they took
20 eggs out of her there it is mom had
20 babies in one year by surrogates and
she spent
$67,000 I think a month on 16 nannies
but the millionaire is actually a very
intelligent millionaire they plan it so
he takes his sperm she takes her eggs
out they stick it in 20 Sur gets they 20
kids at the same time it's actually a
very efficient way to have kids they
they're going to have a 100 some I don't
know what the dude did to end up in
prison but um a lot of people would
laugh at this but let's think logically
for a second genas Khan largest empire
ever is the Mongol Empire not the Roman
not the West the East is understudied
cuz we all went to damn Western schools
so Mongol
horde potentially 1% of the world he's
their grandfather he's had a tremendous
effect you talk about having an effect
having social media followers our
followers were unfollow us over one
thing but genas Khan yeah you could see
8% yeah this one says 0.5% of the world
and 8% of Asia he's their grandfather I
read
seven you want a to Will To Power my
friend but so what's your North Star
here I'm trying to Anchor
around why you want people to have kids
so we've got population is good for the
population we've got genetics want you
to have kids and therefore you should
personal happiness uh okay what's the
feedback loop of personal happiness you
mean why personal happiness important or
why why how is it related to kids
anytime you do what your jeans built are
built for you're happier I it's almost
the only way you can do it is to hijack
it so for example the food system
hijacks it we're happier when we get
some salt a little B of fat a little bit
of carbs and a little bit of you know
protein we're not happy that's why keto
will never take off because we'll be
somewhat unhappy with no easily
digestible carbs okay so basically I'm
just
saying we need to all get over ourselves
and just do what's obvious that we're
here for and I said I think your Will To
Power and it's funny you have a you're
high on W of power which is Mastery and
mating kids would be good for you you
have a good kid you have good kids I I
think maybe things happen for a reason
maybe I can make I'm not trying to make
a persuasive thing because I don't
always think you persuade adults what I
would ask you to do is first you're a
creative man your wife ain't that old
still can have kids think about
it you think Elon Musk has a lot of
power he got 11 kids it keeps popping
him out he had two he had two in the
last 12 months yeah it's interesting so
is it possible he knows something me and
you know we're not as successful as this
guy uh is it possible he knows something
of course I'm sure he knows many things
that we don't know certainly he knows
many things I don't know I can speak
from experience but I will say that I
think it's a a very complicated beg but
I'll give now my best argument for why I
think people should have kids why don't
you give the one why they shouldn't cuz
you're not having kids I don't think
there is uh what's the opening line um
every unha every happy family is the
same every unhappy family is unhappy in
their own way uh so I think the default
answer should be you should have kids if
you're if you're uncertain have kids if
you're sure you don't want kids fair
enough well convictions are greater
enemies of the truth than lies yes
that's Nia for you yeah so I would say
strong convictions loosely held is the
way to think about that statement if you
don't have convictions you won't be able
to take action but if you're unwilling
to change your mind why not just
hypotheses all the time cool I usually
speak in hypothesis so here's my
hypothesis and why most people should
have kids um ultimately all you're
trying to do is modulate your
neurochemistry life is ultimately about
how you feel about yourself when you're
by yourself but you are having a
biological experience and if you don't
acknowledge that your brain works in a
certain way you will never be able to
predict what makes you happy and what
doesn't make you happy and that's a
standin for
fulfillment fulfillment is the only
emotional state I know that can survive
something like grief so it is the uh
positive mindset that I think people
should aim for fulfillment has a recipe
that recipe is very simple you're going
to work very hard to gain a set of
skills that matter to you for whatever
reason that allow you to uplift yourself
and other people uh we're a social
creature we need to serve the group so
if you do that you will have a resilient
sense of well-being that you have lived
your life well so that just for mental
health is why I think people should head
down an evolutionary
prescribed path okay kids are the
evolutionary prescribed path also
depending on how you're neurologically
hardwired I would say we're also um the
prescribed the evolutionarily prescribed
path for most people in most situations
not all and it does become context
dependent but for most is going to be
long-term pair bonding we are a species
that falls right in the middle you can
judge by testicular size of the male if
you look at
small that's cuz they beat everybody up
exactly so one guy has all the kids
exactly um so we know that males fall in
the middle so um but we are like you
said serial monogamy okay so that's my
best argument for kids so people now
have heard the the both we're both I
think pushing people roughly in the same
direction uh if you don't want to have
kids I don't think anybody should if you
don't want to but you have to comp ate
for the fact that now Nature's easiest
path what your brain is optimized for
you're taking off the table as a way to
reach fulfillment you can still achieve
fulfillment without having kids uh it
just becomes instead of trying to serve
a larger group sorry instead of trying
to serve a smaller group which is easier
for people the unit of the family you're
now trying to serve a larger Group which
is society now Society will come and go
like social followers sometimes they
follow you sometimes they don't they can
turn against you it is what it is
there's no sense of um deep connection
there's a profound hardwiring where my
parents could have been evil and I would
still be more interested in them than
the next person it just is what it is so
uh that's the for against is if you
don't want them by all means don't but
just make sure that you address
fulfillment somehow or you're going to
be profoundly unhappy now I want to go
back to where we started which was women
uh what's you said that you're not the
marrying type I would love to understand
CU you're so so thoughtful about like
well this is a big part of this is
genetics So when you say you're not the
marrying type is that psychological
frame of reference where you've built
values and beliefs around it or is it I
don't produce enough vasopressin to get
the bond that I need
right
um both I I think look I agree where I
agree with you is people are different
as I said fds frequency dependent
selection so so nature kind of looks if
there's too many people having kids it
wants a few of them to not have kids
kind of thing so you could have Warriors
in a tribe that don't mind dying because
they don't have kids at
home
um I'll give you an example I was
reading um Nobel Prize
winner Mandela Nelson Mandela he grew up
in Africa it's not Western one of my
heroes okay his dad had five
wives there was a village
five Village five little Huts apart from
each other it's funny when men have more
than one wife don't put them all in one
house a Mormon a girl who grew up with
Mormon she had she has 38 brothers and
sisters in Utah she told me this she's
like oh they all fight with each other
but Nelson Mandela grew up in a group
where his dad would spend like one week
in his Hut and he grew up to be a Nobel
Prize winner I think a lot of things
that we think in the western world are
prescribed by God they're not prescribed
by
God but now he didn't have a thousand
women necessarily now if you go to mumar
the bloodthirsty who had the most
children that are counted in Morocco he
had roughly 700 boys they didn't count
the girls back then he's like I don't
give a [__] about the girls yeah he used
to sit on a uh Throne of skulls very
intimidating some people go I met a guy
one time he's like T man I went these
guys called me in for a business meeting
to negotiate with me and they took me in
there and it was a skyscraper and it we
all in suits and I was all intimidated I
was like well at least they didn't have
a they didn't have the heads of the men
they had killed last week on the on you
need to do can I come in next time can
you put some skulls under here so I can
pretend I'm Mubarak Lopez the
bloodthirsty anyway he had 700 son but
in general men have not had a thousand
concubines I mean they say Solomon in
the Bible was supposed to be the wisest
man in history we had a lot of w yeah a
thousand wives I think 10,000 concubines
or 2,000 or whatever but in general it's
been more like Nelson Mandela right
small but not
Western now there's been many people who
just had one husband I mean one male and
one female and one set of kids but I
think I try to go what is society
inventing and I ignore that and what is
society not inventing I think society's
not inventing that people want to have
kids I think that's in my primitive
nature so a simple thing to do is build
your life around the Primitive just
control it 20% so I think if you go 100%
primitive you know you'll end up dead
one way or another well so from A
Primitive perspective though the reason
that I said um that some of this is
context dependent is as far as I know in
the evolution AR literature that
basically what you end up getting you
get um polygamy when you have one man
that's capable of taking care of a lot
of women and when when you have that
it's because you have a high genen
coefficient so you have people that have
a lot and you have people that have very
little and so the people that have a lot
you're better off being the fifth wife
of somebody extraordinarily wealthy than
you are being the only wife to somebody
who but that's not quite true that's
that there's a lot of stupid books out
there if you go to the people like like
a Dr bus that wrote the text book for
Harvard I've had you know the yanam Momo
Indians they're still a hunter gatherer
tribe mhm I was talking to Dr Helen
Fischer she's the also by the way the
chief scientist for Tinder she has the
most data on love of any human in
history she has all the
data she spent time with the Yan Momo
there's they're not it's not that
there's a low the Jenny coefficient is
healthy there it's only in farming
societies up with men that don't have
access to women no because some men will
take a woman that's been had by another
man at the same time no after when the
when the main guy is done with her it
happens all the time in fact I was
reading interesting book there's a book
called why we love by Dr Helen Fischer
on this subject she has a an a story
there um there was a woman who had 18
lovers they would go and sneak off hold
on the math isn't adding up so uh if you
have a society that's roughly roughly
50/50 and you have one man at any time
that has more than one wife even if only
temporarily there will be periods of
time where there are men who simply
don't have access to faithful woman
absolutely I don't know about the yamamu
tribe well enough I cannot speak to that
but that does happen and that happens in
society right now yes for sure but
typically what you end up getting so
take a culture where it's celebrated
that the elite men have five wives
whatever uh you are going to create the
Surplus male problem so you're going to
have in Theos there was no marriage so
the alpha might have had Suzie but Suzie
simultaneously might be bonding with
George the beta okay so what are the
it's not so black and white here's the
knock on consequence that that appears
to me again I don't know anything about
this tribe and so if they are the
miraculous can look at y many you you're
confusing so let me just say hunter
gatherer is 300,000 years ago to about
20,000 years ago rise of Agriculture
rise of militaries rise of governments
rise of one man being able to amass
large fortunes through better tools okay
so are we talking which time are we
talking we still have most of the genes
are we talking about the 300,000 the two
300,000 to the last 20,000 I think the
argument that if I were to lay out each
side mine is it's context dependent so
we need to know the time periods we're
talking about yours we are these people
genetic no genetically we're the hunter
gatherers so for you you this is again
born of genetics so born of genetics
what's the thesis some men will be happy
with multiple wives and other men will
just have to deal with the fact that
they have no wives frequency independent
selection there will be lower risk AER
men that'll be they may want more than
one woman but it's a risk to go after
more than one woman both for Surplus if
you focus more on one woman she's less
likely to to leave you for another Alpha
men so men have developed tremendous you
know now they call it Alpha Beta that's
a wrong way to think about it it's more
frequency dependent selection you're
going to have some men that are High
Risk Takers so they're going to go out
try to monopolize five 10 women that
takes more risk because for example when
you're with woman number eight woman
number two's on her own and women
sometimes decide they want a pair bond
and then that Alpha men ands sometimes
alpam men take care of the babies of
betam men they're teaching now that beta
men are always taking taking care of the
alpha child [__] they don't know any
science that's not how it works that's
why Gorillas monopolized with physical
power and keep all the women close to
them but that's impossible to do now and
been impossible to do because as I said
when they studied the yanam Momos the
women go off hunting on their own or
gathering and they have a little rondevo
with a dude and you see this in
champanes the betas stay friends with
the women and often copulate and mate
with them so it's super complex set of
Game Theory we it'd be better to just
imagine there's a world where there's
three men and three
women okay so let's say there's I don't
know who's a good there's Leonardo
DiCaprio he's the best looking one who's
an average looking actor uh Adrian who's
the average looking
actor daero he's not greatl looking he's
not horrible and then you got uh Danny
DeVito okay and you got the same now
let's say all three women in general
seem to to be prettier than men they've
been selected for looks so there's three
one extra gorgeous woman one a you know
decently and one average okay so if
you're
DiCaprio you're going to try a high-risk
strategy okay so you're highrisk and I
oversimplifying so you try the high-risk
strategy you seduce the three okay but
you literally generally are not seducing
them at the M same millisecond but he
has slept with all three he's had his
chance but he probably sleeps with them
less
often because a man can only have sex so
many times in A Day Men are constrained
much more whereas Danny deito he goes
[__] I'm going straight for the the most
attainable the least attractive and he
puts all his concentration on her now
one point since women there's a great
book on this called the the dangerous
passion it's about jealousy this
somewhat average woman that has Danny
DeVito pursuing her at some point she
sees DiCaprio with the more pretty one
she goes [__] that I don't like that he
may leave me for her and so she settles
with deito and now DeVito never cheats
and he has sex with her copulates many
many times many times okay he may end up
having the same amount of kids as the
highrisk strategy that's why I said
we're forgetting risk aversion and we're
thinking this is the alpha guy who has a
better strategy versus the beta and the
sigma and all these stupid things we
should be thinking that nature is
smarter than us all and it doesn't you
know what nature doesn't give us it
doesn't give us free thought forget free
will for a second so what nature does is
convince DiCaprio that he's doing the
right thing and isn't this so much more
fun you get the women and you just have
sex with all of them and it's telling
DeVito to feel high levels of romantic
attaction to the one girl because a
slave owner a a slave who do you think
works harder a slave who knows he's a
slave or a slave who thinks he owns the
plantation DNA is the slave owner and
it's smart this happened in America
after the 18 after you know 1865
Emancipation Proclamation blacks were
given rights back somewhat but then came
a racist president a couple presidencies
later Reconstruction Era and then they
they let black people build all these
beautiful Farms I read a book in South
Carolina they had a develop this whole
Farm land and then the damn they
switched it back and they took the
Farmland back not through slavery but
through some nasty laws so those black
men had who had thought they were free
worked harder than when they were slaves
so it was a very kind of heinous thing
to do that's what's happening with
DiCaprio here Danny DeVito and Robert
dairo it's making each of them think
they're freely acting and at the end no
one has more offspring than the other
because of DiCaprio's way always worked
over 10,000 Generations everybody would
be born with the DiCaprio strategy if
you study Game Theory though Game Theory
brand they call it Hawks and doves is a
one game theory simulation or they
sometimes they have different names
exploiters defectors there's but Hawks
and dobes he's a hawk DiCaprio com
swoops in you know Dove is a very
faithful kind of upfront honest guy you
know Danny DeVito ugly guy comes and
he's like I love you and da d da they
have the same amount of kids and that's
why right now in the 2020s there's some
people that are like DiCaprio and some
people that are like dairos and some
dairo is a little bit he a little maybe
he slept with two of the women out of
the three but they all have the same
amount of kids that's the game theory
weirdo thing you know it's like this I
just read today I was reading a textbook
by this guy Ashton on personalities it's
fascinating men and women one big
difference is men
experience
this life satisfaction women touch the
top one day and the bottom the other day
women go way up emotionally feeling
amazing and
women feel tremendously depressed in the
same week the average man partially
because of testosterone is very
comparatively very but you know what
they found in the
totality male and female is not
predictive who's having more life
satisfaction because the women's
extremes cancel each other out and
they're just like the men that's why I
said these three guys DiCaprio daero and
and and uh Danny DeVito they kind their
strategies cancel each other out so what
you have to know going back to your
question to me is who really are you in
your primitive State there are men who
have trem my best friend I remember
being 16 years old my friend Jeremy we
were walking to the park in San Diego
I'll never forget and he literally goes
to me he goes Ty I just want to find one
woman it was such a funny talk I don't
know why I remember this I just want to
find one woman and I'm going to give her
roses and we're going to get married and
have kids and and I remember at this
park there was all these pretty girls I
was in high school there's all these
high school girls and and and we're
sitting there two high schoolers and I
go why I was like how are you going to
choose I remember being like how you
going choose well guess what life pass
we went down he married as a virgin his
high school sweet heart they were both
virgins when they got married they
stayed together 10 years okay had one
child he gets divorced I lived in that
house next door to you no kidding he
calls me I'm suicidal man and I talked
to him it was one of those I don't think
he's joking suicidal I said you got to
move he was living on East Coast I said
you move into my house right here I'm
afraid for you we've been friends since
two years old he moves here he lands
I'll never forget he goes Ty I am going
to live the bachelor life like you've
been living he goes never will I get
married n all this is so
so I had a blind date with a Brazilian
girl literally within a couple days of
him landing at the house this guy landed
he stayed single three
days I'm down at you know uh sushia down
on the bottom here so I used to go to
sushia a lot I love it's like an outdoor
sushi place right at the bottom of this
hill Sunset plaz I'm sitting there it
was a blind dat I don't know somebody
set her up they're like you're going to
love this Brazilian girl she pulls up
in a uber when the door opens I look at
her I know she's not my type I have a
type so I was like I'm going to
instantly pivot this so I don't I'm not
stuck with this girl that I don't want
I'm like I'm gonna go find somebody else
and Jeremy was having dinner with me on
Sushi and so I I just played almost like
a magic trick she didn't speak perfect
English I just pretended Jeremy was the
blind date and I'm like the [__]
valet or something I was like well great
come to our table and I sat them down I
kid you not he told me a few years ago
from that night they never spent a night
apart for eight
years the man couldn't be a player he
couldn't be a bachelor you know why they
broke up by the way she got jealous it
I'm sure it was other things but the
final straw where he broke up with her
he had you know navigation you can
change the voices to Darth Vader to L
Skywalker he said it to a sexy girl and
she finally flipped out and she's like
am I not enough for you that you need
this beautiful
he's like it's a voice and he's like no
more Latin women but anyway within he
you ever met a dude who never can be
single so he was talking to a girl who
works for
me he overlapped made sure he had the
new girl dropped the old one had the new
one continuous line of
monogamy got married recently Wendy told
me he never would again I could have
predicted that you know I look at his
hand he's exactly opposite of me crazy
high Esten finger and low so my point is
know if you're Jeremy or know if you're
Tai then you'll be in flow I've tried to
be Jeremy before I make the girl
miserable and I'm
miserable no thyself how's that a win
everybody loses man now I think what's
going wrong in society is people are
listening to influencers who are more
that want to have 50 women and they're
thinking that's the path but that's not
true lots of men in fact Dr bus told me
like 50 60% of men experience
tremendous pleasure from Marriage they
feel less anxious they they have more
sex they feel happy and yes they may be
tempted by other women but not really
but don't ever forget fds frequency
dependent selection 20% of men are
miserable and have been miserable I mean
a lot of men you know when women say men
are workaholic
no those are the 20% of men that don't
like that the fact that they're married
they want to be off I uh Dr Helen
Fischer she told me she went to a tribe
in like Indonesia one of these like kind
of like the yanam Momo in South America
and she got there and a man the chief
tribe guy had five
wives and she shows up and she said I
asked him a it's in the opening of her
book I think it's in why we love she
says to him I'm a researcher I this is a
question I've always wanted to ask if
you had unlimited resources as a hunter
how many wives would you
like she thought he was going to say 20
30 he said zero they're driving me
crazy that might have been a man that
was a Jeremy but because of the tribal
status he had to be you know he had to
be a player he wasn't a player I have a
feeling that's a tie who realizes that
women may not be as easily predisposed
to the setup which is my next question
so do I want the Five Wives well that
what I'm saying is so if we know that
you're what you called a player somebody
who likes High variety yeah uh you said
at the beginning of this that um Nelson
Mandela's dad had five wives but they
all stayed in their own Huts don't keep
them together because they fight a lot
so that would be my instinct that that
is not they're not going to mesh well as
a general rule I'm sure there are
exceptions to the rule but it's not
going to work well so how do you find
women that suit your lifestyle you're
good at reading people what's the
criteria that you sift through so that
you don't end up with somebody who
belongs with Jeremy right and tries to
make it work with you and is unhappy by
the way Rick I realized I said Jeremy's
name usually I don't say Jeremy Jeremy's
gonna listen we can ble that out if we
need to no no you can leave it in he's
cool we he'll be like ah um it's been
long enough it's been long enough you
know you can now tell Abraham Lincoln
gunshot jokes it's been long enough it's
not too early um
so uh repeat the
question what filtering yeah what find
that okay I got to answer you're not
going to like cuz I we talked about
astrology at the beginning my mom's a
hippie sitting over there in a chair one
thing I've learned is there is a 10%
chance maybe higher that all the
religious things that supposedly smart
guys like me and you believe is wrong
and all the religious stuff is right I
mean I there is a chance that classical
kind of God there's a God and we and
there's Angel there there is some of the
smartest people the first time I ever
saw it is the last page of Stephen
Hawkings book uh is it his book called
The Big questions or whatever he has two
books brief history time and one of them
he ends by saying and then we will know
the mind of God and I was like what he's
talking about God now he didn't mean it
in a religious sense but there's things
like prayer when you start thinking
about quantum physics like prayer is
like there was nothing and then there
was something or as Stephen Hawkins said
we used to think there's no free lunch
it seems like all of the universe is
free lunch as if all of the universe
could have been a prayer that one
species
said I manifest a cool group of weirdos
four billion of them and it just the big
bang happen we call it the Big Bang but
that could have been the creation story
we don't know so
you ask me do I believe in
astrology I mean I wouldn't build on my
whole life around it but I'm also don't
think it's a0 per. do I believe in
psychics in general I wouldn't but I
wouldn't bet a 100 I wouldn't bet my
life on it so I asked a psychic
this I don't seem to be the Maran type
now there are some psychics I'm going
tell you believe it or not there's a
psychic down in West
Hollywood don't count so I don't know
what they do they're like magicians I
still haven't figured out their trick
there's a famous one that is a psychic
to a lot of the smartest wealthiest
people here I always saw her Ferrari in
her house it's in West Hollywood down by
m Rose one time I was dating this girl
and she was like crying after work she
had had this big blow up quit her job
and we're driving by and and she I knew
she was a hippie so I said let's go to
the psychic there so we're going to the
psychic we walk in she's like true she's
like Romanian she speaks that she's got
bead but she has Ferrari like four
Ferrari's out front I'm like this chick
is good I got to see her sales technique
so we walk in it's a long table it's
very much like a movie the girl I'm
sitting with and and this psychic
speaking in her Romanian voice goes or
maybe she was Albanian or something she
talks to the women she goes you're
having problems at work your boss is
hitting on you and you and you're
thinking of leaving the job well that's
why we drove there her boss had hit on
her and she decided to quit now this was
like a very pretty model and I was
thinking that's easy I could have
guessed that he like you know I was like
a pretty girls having problems with
their boss but I kid you not the
Romanian lady goes but tonight's not
about you ma'am it's about you she turns
to me she goes you have six brothers
well I have six brothers and nobody
knows that they're all half Brothers
after I was like looking for cameras I
was like I still don't know how she
figure that out you can google google Ty
Lopez how many brothers there's nothing
I don't know how she knew me but she
proceeded to tell me all this stuff and
then at the end she said no charge I
came with a like a Rolls-Royce she knew
I had money she goes no charge to you
take this necklace this will give you
good luck she tried to put it around me
she goes and if you ever want to come
back I'm open any time it's $1,500 a
session I never went back though cuz she
freaked me out but I was like what a
damn good salesman a pure virtue signal
thought I just did this for free I still
haven't figured out the damn magic trick
see Ty that one says Ty has three half
Brothers I have six anyway so I
asked not that psychic but a psychic
what should I do how do I find women
like this you know what her answer was
she pulls her tarot cards she goes oh
you just need like kind of a hippie free
spirit woman there's there's 20% of the
world like that that's damn good
advice so if you're like me there's a
group of women first off there's a group
of women that experience no jealousy
it's very rare it's very it's for sure
sub five to 10 per. there's a group of
women who
um like the thought that a guy can have
more than woman then they're just not
threatened so you have to find on a
spectrum you need low
jealousy and actually High
cooperation that's technical terms
agreeableness so a high agreeable person
just kind of says well if that makes you
happy I'm good with it but it has to be
a combination of those two so a a a
psychic would just say find a free
spirit the scientist in me was you need
to look for a very narrow set of
people but I think people try to De my
way very I actually thought I actually
like relationships more than I
thought
H I think I'm more visual remember how I
said on the spectrum of Personality
we've been forgetting about risk taking
there Aesthetics there are men who I
have a brother who's very goodlook I
have a couple brothers that are
good-looking they don't care that much
about the looks of a woman interestingly
enough in a textbook there's an
interesting textbook I think it's
evolutionary psychology by Dr
bus High parasite load societies care
more about physical Aesthetics meaning
there's actually a gene because you know
when you know physical beauty is like
low mutation parasite load that's that's
like the a I think the average person
has like 4 or 500 mutations in the womb
from the environment or bad genetics not
enough that you're handicapped when
you're born but somebody like Brad Pit
had like 50 mutations and some mutations
come from high parasite load there's
huge parts of Puerto Rico Rockefeller
that was one of his big things there was
so much parasite load in tropical places
so maybe my ancestry from a tropical
place has made me more aesthetic my dad
was a pro bodybuilder he was very
aesthetic so I think what makes it
harder for me is and and and and my some
of my brothers are they don't care about
Aesthetics they don't want an ugly woman
but they're not tremendously
aesthetically picky they want a pretty
woman but not a shockingly pretty woman
and um what does that have to do with
how much you discovering you like
relationships more than you thought so I
have to go I I wrote a I have a thing
called 13 thesis it's my 13 hypothesis
for me there's a certain look that I
like more and so if I go to places that
are thick Market of that which is
Scandinavia my barom my let's you ever
heard of me minimum effective dose uh
probably it's when you go to a doctor
for antibiotics he's like make sure you
take all four pills cuz if you take
three nothing happens except maybe you
get you know resistance so for me to be
in a relationship with a girl there's a
minimum attraction I have to have mhm
when I lived in California in that house
in general I don't like like the look of
women in the United States I don't know
why when I first time I ever went to
Scandinavia I was like I remember I've
told my mom many times Mom it's only one
thing I'm mad at you for in my childhood
that you didn't move to Sweden when I
was a baby because every single woman is
kind of not every single woman but it's
a thick market so it's easier for me to
fall in love so I actually think I'm
more romantic than I thought I was 5
years ago but if I don't have you just
hadn't found the right no the me there's
not enough me and so two things a man
has to have all men care about
Aesthetics so for me let's say the me is
she has to be an eight out of 10 of
Attraction but my type okay there's a
lot I don't think Angela and Julie is
classically beautiful she's like a four
to me I don't find her attractive so
there has to be an attraction aesthetic
attraction for me that's let's say every
man needs an eight my it's harder for me
to fulfill an eight but you also need a
woman within the same or one standard
deviation of your IQ that's classic
evolutionary theory so if you for any
man listening or woman the higher your
IQ is any woman or man listening as high
IQ and has high Aesthetics um you narrow
the pool teeny I had a mathematician
friend klouse flock astrophysicist at
North Carolina I fed in all my
computations that I wanted and he's like
Ty we had bre in Chapel Hill one time
he's like I calculate there's 70 women
like this in the world and I was like
but there's 8 billion people and he's
like and there's none in North Carolina
statistically because there's only 11
million people in North Carolina and
there's 8 billion he did all the math
he's like you're
[__] but what he should have told me
is go to
Sweden that is the symbol that is I need
a shirt all right so we know we need so
know thyself yeah know thyself we need
to go to a thick market then we're also
going to have to have romantic then I am
not as interested in dating 20
women only five doesn't have to be five
um no I think even the man that thinks
he's a player if the me is met he might
settle down interesting that feels
diametrically opposed to where we
started it's like quantum physics we
have our absolute rule that men are
genetically and then we have our quantum
physics that the second you start to
measure it too close it changes that's
why I said be careful of convictions
convictions are greater enemies of the
you know the rud you know my first
YouTube video I my digress it was a good
one I don't even know if I have it
posted I was in a taxi in London I think
it's roughly
2014 the first time I tried to be an
influencer I had some videos in ' 09 at
the Laugh Factory down there with Zach
2014 I did this video and I said the
root of all evil and I said I can't
explain it in words so let me just give
it to you in primitive grunts the root
of all evil in the world
[Music]
is instead of
H you know people ask me what I think of
the Middle East right now the root of
all evil
is we know what's true versus hm that's
not what I thought but tell me why you
think that
way was the root of all evil in Russia
Ukraine you got two sides that I know
nothing about it but I know the root of
all evil is convictions you should have
very few convictions because almost
everything is wrong including what I
believe so as I said when I'm in my best
when I'm in my power I might have had a
hypothesis about myself because when I
lived in La all the evidence was showing
that I didn't want to commit to a girl
but I realized it because they didn't
meet the me of the two things that are
important to my
brain Los Angeles is not an intellectual
place it's a SSG a self- selected group
of people who in general are higher on
narcissism so you do get a lot of people
that are beautiful here um but the US is
not is not an SSG for intelligence there
are int obviously the most Nobel prizes
in the world are the us but it's very
thin Park po pockets in general Europe
is more an intellectual place even
Napoleon in the 1800s said you know
America that Merchant State he saw
America as a place where people like to
make money so I always tell people best
place you can live is outside of the US
for lifestyle best place to make money
is inside the US that's why I pop in and
out of both Europe is a much better
lifestyle people are healthier happier
and you can meet the most beautiful
woman who is smart as hell in America
it's a thin Market you find beauty and
now people going to get mad at this but
[__] you ever landed at an American
airport after being in Sweden you're
like what the [__] happened this bu a
nuclear bomb of looks what the [__]
happened now part of that is obesity is
just decimating looks your fa men are
always like Ty I'm too ugly to get a
girl I'm like n you probably got too
much fat on your face damn it [__] fat
distorts the face for men and women you
[__] and everybody distorts in a
different way so Europe like Sweden is
the I think last I read is the most in
shaped people in the world what's the
secret to being um to being able to get
the kind of woman that you
want change where you live damn it
geography is a son of a [__] you get
the wrong geography I I have a friend he
freaking loves brunettes and he lives in
like you know he lives in
Norway he likes I'm like bro you got to
move go find a wife in Brazil and come
back now one thing I would add to this
the new Global study came out I've been
waiting for this for my entire
decade men and women go hard on studying
mental instability because countries
aren't all the same what do you think's
the most me this new meta study came out
what's the most mentally unstable place
in the world mentally unstable yeah
Russia high it's like say three Eastern
Europe is very high in and when people
say what do you mean by mental
instability dark Triad exploitative
traits so dark Triad traits there's dark
diad but dark Triad is narcissism melium
and
psychopathy where else do you think's
even
worse that was my best guess yes I'm
just going to go through where could you
hide a terrorist for 20 years Middle
East but you'd have to be very specific
in which country and I would not be the
person to make that guess am I right you
ever seen Donald Trump's interview where
he goes
Abu is dead he died like a dog you ever
see that whole thing no no remember when
Obama sent a Navy SEAL Team in and the
plane the helicop that was Pakistan I
was bin Lan was chill there like we'll
take this so Pakistan scored on this
meta study by the way no offense I have
actually an office in Pakistan so I've
had a great experience in Pakistan but
which is currently being bombed yeah
after that com my office kid okay hope
not like what I need my office no but
Pakistan Middle East uh Middle East in
general Eastern Europe um France is the
most unstable in the western world but
where do you think's the most mentally
stable
place thick Market of low exploitative
traits Brazil I ah you got it you're the
first person to ever get it I've always
I do Brazilian jit Jiu-Jitsu I'm like
the Jolly I got these big huge guys I
work out heg Machado he's like 63 260
pound you know 260 PB red coral belt
he's the jolliest guy ever now Brazil
has high crime but lower
exploitation it's a very family oriented
place so if a man is looking for
long-term mating you need to have your
Meed for looks and
intelligence but you need to heavily
wait mental stability because that [__]
passes on to your children so this is a
complicated game like in my brain is
more I'm not anxious but um I'm I try to
play chess with things when Society
taught me how to play checkers this is a
complicated question the part of why I
came you know I've been off social media
for 3 years my life mission Joel Salton
says most important thing you do is
create a one sentence Mission plan that
you write down so make sure your mission
plan's bigger than your own lifetime
that you could that needs to be
fulfilled mine was starting about 10
more than 10 years ago was I want to
spread good ideas okay or good
hypothesis we could say and I came back
to social media because social media is
actually
spreading very bad ideas and the worst
idea is one that's 95% true and 5% wrong
because it has it's like a sheep it's
like a wolf in sheep's clothing so I
think this is a subject I think men are
getting met LED astray on this a lot of
dudes are like just
following what's this to only one woman
get married the other way swung the
other way never get married never have
kids you think that's the mistake yeah
most men aren't built for that so should
men we obviously already covered kids
should most men get married I think you
should have long-term mating I don't
think marriage matters if you want to do
it for tax reasons Sweden has lower
divorce rates in America nobody gets
married they haven't been getting
married for 50 years Iceland very cool
Society I was just there long lived
Society been going functional for a
thousand years nobody gets married there
but they'll stay together I mean they'll
live have six kids and live together for
20 years you ask them why they're not
married they're like who cares it's a
government piece of paper they're they
have a religious tradition in Iceland
they're half vings they call them or in
Iceland they say Viking gang or
something vking gong um it's supposedly
Christian but it's very
Viking Scandinavia there a lot to learn
from Scandinavia Scandinavia is one of
the pockets of the world that's an
outlier you know it's not really
capitalistic like America it's not
really communistic like Russia it's not
really socialistic or individual yet it
has
individualism they you know what they do
right people aren't physically healthy
anymore in America the food system is
the biggest scam um you know people are
always going oh crypto people did a scam
or this I'm like what are you talking
about if everybody was logical you'd be
throwing the CEO for the last 50 year of
every large food company in prison for
poisoning a generation literally
poisoning in generation people I'm going
people sometimes go Ty your course is a
scam I'm like I had a class that was $67
for 67 hours of business
training that was like repeated in
Harvard even if you thought it was a bad
program you only spent $67 my brother
spent $80,000 at UNCC to get a Spanish
degree and he doesn't even know
Spanish and he was 880,000 in debt it
almost sunk him he was very depressed
over it for a long time how's that how's
that those people not in
prison you don't talking about a scam so
one of thing that's going on everybody
wants to make more money everybody wants
to have love right but at the bottom of
Mao's hierarch of needs is your body I
even heard you at the beginning people
think I don't listen I listen you said
well the only thing more important to me
in my wife would be my physical health I
wouldn't trade that which by the way
you're 100% of your own genes and you're
zero% of your own wife so that's a
predictable answer we would all make if
you had a choice between being super
unhealthy and being
celibate or super healthy and Cel aate
or super unhealthy and have love you
probably would pick healthy we don't
talk enough about health entrepreneurs
you know I I just wrote this book
Shameless plug it's like seven bucks
called the three trends at the end even
in a business book it's about how to
create wealth from social media in the
damn end of it I put in a bonus chapter
called the ideal physical daily routine
that includes a lot of stuff about
health for example you really as a man
we know this you should be walking
15,000 steps a day when you open your
damn Health app and you look at the
average for the the month you know I
think Health they give you it needs to
save 15,000 and women are built to walk
around 12,000 there's a great book on
this by uh Daniel liberman from Harvard
he's a paleoanthropologist he checks the
bone structure of our hips he can tell
and look at the archaeological record We
Men hunted about seven miles but we
didn't do the K get off the damn
treadmill at the desk I use at the off
at the gym I use a treadmill desk in the
office cuz you don't want to be you know
hardcore working out but we're built to
Sprint run jog slide and
jump so even when we do cardio our
15,000 steps we're not even doing it
right we're walking on concrete walking
on a flat surface so increases things
like joint damage or we're jogging
people who jog always look horrible and
age faster than anybody else I know piss
off the whole Marathon well great if you
want to do a marathon but you don't look
good humans are when we were hunting
something we sprinted sometimes you had
to jump over things sometimes you had to
slide to the side you had to run
backwards sometimes you had to stop and
walk and recuperate and you had to high
speed Sprint so we don't even know what
we're doing sometimes people go Ty are
you a are you a physical therapist are
you what's your credentials I'm like the
people with credentials failed us nobody
even knows how to work out correctly you
know so I built you know I built this
thing called uh 150 body around the
number 150 theoretically scientist
thinks we can live to 150 years old
that's the current now some people say
you can live Methuselah but if you ask
the largest group of scientists they'll
say we can live to 150 and be somewhat
thriving well you need 150 minutes of
deep sleep every night to do that who
the hell I track on a ring you have to
change your life to get 150 minutes of
deep sleep that's two and a half hours I
I I meet all I got you know all these
entrepreneurs around me I got a guy
multi-millionaire eight figure guy nine
fig guy he gets 60 Minutes of deep sleep
I'm like what are you doing bro do you
know Mao what you're talking about this
and I'm going to change the world and
I'm going to this and my kids I said
you're going to [__] die what are you
talking about so people should stick
much closer to that maso's hierarchy of
needs and never think you can move off
the bottom of it get on a
farm you should drink Dairy people are
idiots with dairy they're literal idiots
with dairy there's not one pie of sign
now there are people who are lactose
intolerant but dair's the food of the
Gods and if you don't believe me you
know all the NFL and the NBA you notice
there's one group of people that seems
to be playing well black guys well they
don't come from every tribe you think
they come from the pigme tribes of South
Africa South the southern part of Africa
no a lot of the damn huge most athletic
powerful people they're Messi and
they're Dinka what do the Messiah do
they live off
cattle they drink the blood right out of
the the neck they drink the milk and
they they eat the
meat so we've been LED astray by the
machine the rise of Corporations tricked
us that Dairy is bad for you now if you
have lactose intolerant you can do other
things and you don't need a lot of dairy
that's the thing people think oh you
drink 50 gallons of milk no but paleo is
not correct carnivore is not correct you
know keto is not correct it's all there
it's the nomadic diet look it up there's
three branches of human history there's
the branch of hunter gatherers and then
there's a branch of Agriculture both of
these don't have the best health so we
base paleo and carnivore carnivore is
kind of its own invention but humans are
not carnivores I like you ever open you
know what's funny I have cows so when I
meet a vegan I'm like you ever been
around a
herbivore oh no die vegan is the way
it's healthier for you you ever been
around an herbivore I have 300
herbivores on my farm right now cows for
Jam Amed stomachs they have no teeth at
the top none if you have teeth you're
automatically chewing not forage you
don't have grass now carnivores I'm like
how many carnivore teeth do you see in
your mouth dingdong you got a couple
sharp ones you ever opened your
carnivore dog's mouth or a lion's mouth
it's a lot of sharp ones so we got
confused hunter gatherer were not the
healthiest people a lot of them like I
said pygmies they're like 4ot tall
they're not that strong then you had
modern agriculture which was
too uh we basically have domesticated
plants too much my wild apples on my
farm are that big how much insulin
response how much what do you think is
the sugar content the glycemic index of
an apple this big much I go in the store
I'm like this person is poisoning a
civilization with an apple that big or
grapes that big so you so but that's the
nomads are the branch you should be
following they are the who was the
healthiest people in North America
George Carlin not the comedian not the
comedian the painter in the 1700s came
through America studied all the people
when he came to the Plains Indians who
lived off Buffalo also they would shoot
the babies cut open their stomach and
eat the basically the cottage cheese the
curdled milk out okay they ate the organ
meat who was 6'1 tall strongest smartest
blew him away it was the Plains Indians
not the who farmed not the there was the
tribes that ate basically just
vegetables that was the Ute Indians in
Utah they were the poorest they looked
like they were going to die all the time
we don't we have to become an
independent thinker yeah I saw a quote
from you that said I don't know what to
make of a civilization that poisons its
own people yeah no their own
children go into a school right now you
got Coca-Cola for six-year-olds even the
government stupid nutritional thing says
you should get 20 if an adult should
only get 25 grams of processed sugar
some Sprites have I've seen a Sprite
that had I don't know what size it was
had 60 grams of sugar and you give it to
a kid who's 35 PBS and then you give
them riddling so the other people who
some of them should be in prison not all
of them is the pharmaceutical people all
right we've opened up two big cans of
whoop ass but uh I know we have to wrap
and get you out of here yeah what time
this has been fascinating we talk
business let's do it we didn't talk as
much business that's good though well so
one question I have on that is uh
obviously over the last few years when
you've been out of the spotlight on
social doing the traditional marketing
you've gone into bigger companies older
companies B RadioShack
bodybuilding.com perer one uh I heard
you Pier One Jesus I heard you say that
your holding company was going to do
about 450 million in Revenue um how's
that going like what's the strategy
there where do you see this ending up so
I've always been a Warren Buffett guy
and I think when you create wealth by
reverse
engineering the best right now who
exactly I actually think Warren Buffett
and I think the two best business people
just pure business people are Mark
Zuckerberg and Warren Buffett Elon Musk
is probably the most Innovative and
creative you know and maybe civilization
changing so what Warren Buffett said is
or how I interpret it is don't build it
if you can buy it
but if you can't buy it build it and so
I think an underutilized tool I bought
my first business did an m&a transaction
like 2004 I took over a nightclub
business and it instantly started making
money now that doesn't always happen m&a
deals if you start doing a lot of m&a
deals some are going to succeed and some
will fail even Warren Buffett kicks some
out the I'm not as good a businessman as
Warren Buffett but everybody when you
acquire companies Sometimes some win and
some don't but the advantage is
you take you buy a company like Pier One
and you have 95% brand recognition in
the United States and so if you want to
be in the HomeGoods you want to sell
chairs you want to sell Furniture to
build that from scratch might take 65
years and a couple billion dollars in
Revenue you can buy it so I think more
entrepreneurs should be buying [__] I
think it's a big mistake and if you go
back to that Forbes list of the top 10
wealthiest people every I mean look Elon
Musk didn't his first wealth big wealth
was created with PayPal he didn't start
Paypal he merged into it in an m&a deal
he didn't start Tesla he bought in I
think he put in $32 million to acquire
his stake yes but you're taking a what
looks like from the outside to be a very
highrisk strategy so when you announced
you were buying Radio Shack I was like
whoa cuz that from a brand perspective
well not everybody should do that kind
of not look risk taking again know
thyself if you're a lowrisk taker a
simple thing to do is buy cash flowing
businesses I had a friend Nate in San
Diego he B I remember him telling me Ty
I bought and I did this in 2013 he
bought a a fence building business a
boring business literally built fences
from a guy in Orange County who was like
70 years old had no kids that wanted the
business was doing 5 million a year my
friend bought it for no cash he just
said I'll give you 50,000 a month he
funded the 50,000 a month to pay the guy
by doing email marketing and adding an
extra 100,000 in profit a month so it
was a riskless transition I did that in
2013 I bought a a online education
company two partners were fighting it
was in the house right there next to you
and so if you it wasn't risky like
buying a Big Brand that's all you can
just buy something that's cash flowing
that's like 40 years old and as NE and I
did that I bought a business and I
introduced email marketing to it and I
made an extra2 $100,000 the first month
and I had my payments were 10,000 a
month on it so I kicked myself out I
owned half of it 100 G's and paid 10,000
of it to the guy so I think no this risk
tolerance thing next time I come on I'm
going to have thought this is my newest
thing I've been thinking about the last
six months
but don't dismiss
something because you're a lower risk
taker and I've done this before take a
good idea and stick it in your risk
profile so if you if I see for example
Elon mus did the riskiest of all m& he
bought Twitter for $44
billion from a public code to private
there's a lot of things that can go
wrong he borrowed money I think he put
in I don't know eight billion of his own
it's all leveraged up he after three
months of him owning he said we might go
bankrupt if it goes bankrupt he has to
give most of his Equity back to
restructure the business in a chapter 11
so Elon Musk is a tremendous high-risk
for one of the first times I ever met
Elon Musk he told me told me a story and
I he
said after PayPal I I think he made I
forget the number 130 million After Cash
uh taxes he said I heard him say in
person I was borrowing rent money 10
years later or 5 years later so he's so
high on the risk profile that if I if
somebody listening says well Elon Musk
is buying crazy companies and dumping
his whole life if you're not able to
take that level of risk you might commit
suicide many a man has committed suicide
from not knowing his personal risk
profile Elon Musk has a superpower he
Donald Trump the same way in his book
one of his books Donald I've never met
Donald Trump but he said in one of his
books he said you know what I'm just
built different he said at one point I
walked by a homeless guy and I was 1.2
billion in debt that I had personally
guaranteed and I thought I'm a that that
homeless guy has is higher net worth 1.2
billion richer than me and he said I
could sleep 8 hours every night and he
said he had a friend who was a college
professor who had a $250,000 mortgage
and he said he used to call Donald um I
can't sleep at night I got to make my
payment it's 4,000 a month and Donald
said he couldn't understand it I think I
understand it now when you begin to
apply the risk profile so people
shouldn't look at what I do you should
look at the general vicinity acquire
businesses is a great idea but I'll tell
you I'll close with this this new book I
wrote The Three trends what most people
should do is catch the third Trend which
is the rise of the individual and the
simplest way for the every risk profile
whether you're low medium high is to
learn how to create wealth from social
media if you can create wealth from
social media oh you will win because
think of it this way one you could first
off do like what Ben Shapiro did he
built a personal brand around himself
but he Diversified because some people
say I don't want to build a brand on
myself what if I get in a car accident
he then developed a guy named Jordan
Peterson who wasn't wellknown so and he
gets they have a JV he's a profit share
with each other so what you do is you
build your brand or if you're too shy
you do a joint venture with another
brand run the operations it's a portable
business when you build true fans some
fans leave you but humans are commitment
consistency bias once they really love
you I heard a fan of Donald Trump they
were the left was interviewing his fan
and said is there anything Donald Trump
could do that you wouldn't support him
for the next president and the guy goes
bro there going be film of him murdering
somebody he's like I just like Donald
Trump so a personal brand a corporation
could never do that the rise of the
McDonald's the ibms they're going to
fall the microsofts one day will fall
even apples they'll be replaced by what
Elon Musk is doing sticking his face as
the face of Twitter so become an
individual
brand diversify by joint venturing with
three or four others Know Thy wrist
tolerance if you are a little bit lower
on the risk tolerance don't try to
become a big influencer like Tom have
millions of
followers be medium and if you're really
shy try to have a small foll and try to
have a 50,000 person Instagram account
figure it out how to create some wealth
for yourself and then do a joint venture
with somebody who doesn't mind their
face out there and you split the money
that's how people should be making money
now I figured this out 10 years ago in
that house 2011 2012 I was like personal
Brands and I you know what's funny I
started with millionaire life coach I
was still tricked by wave number two
Trend number two is corporations will
win and so I bought millionaire life
coach cost me
$3,000 and I launched it and it just
never got traction and I remembered
about a year later that I had bought Tai
lopez.com for $7 in 2009 and I was like
What if I make it more
personal and I S and I kid you not in
that house right there I'll never forget
before you could go live you had to use
this corporate live software that there
was no Instagram live and all that I
went live in that house 150 people were
on but true fans and I sold a product I
don't remember what it was and I made
$100,000 in 30 minutes and I remember
thinking okay well this works and my
costs were
zero and that's when I knew it but I was
still early it's so easy now it was hard
then so thre trends.com I'll get the
book can I plug something thre
trends.com there it is I'll take you to
the book I've laid out all my opinions
people are oh what should do Instagram
Tik Tok post is podcast better Tik Tok
I'll I'll tell you my opinion of the the
brainwashing of Tik Tok how you can use
it to your advantage and I got all that
in there it works I've done like you
I've done you know way more than 100
million just from a personal brand and
um a lot of people can be doing a mill
could be doing 200 Grand the rise of the
individual that's Trend number three and
if you catch that you'll always be
happier man the worst one was the one
that our ancestors had your dad was
stuck in the rise of the corporation
Trend number two thank God that Trends
dying and damn Trend number one
government talk about that another
time all right first of all it was
awesome having you thank you so much for
being here everybody if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care peace if you want to learn how
waking up at 3:30 a.m. can completely
change your life
be sure to click here check it out your
life will change forever the moment that
you decide to get up early and really
attack your day go to bed at the same
time every
day